

===== [PAGE 1 of source scan] =====

Federal Republic of Nigeria
Official Gazette
No. 56 Lagos - 27th March, 2023 Vol. 110
Government Notice No. 24
The following is published as supplement to this Gazette :
Act No. Short Title Page
8 Copyright Act, 2022 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. A179-243
Extraordinary
Printed and Published by The Federal Government Printer, Lagos, Nigeria
FGP 40/32023/1,200
Annual Subscription from 1st January, 2023 is Local : N50,000.00 Overseas : N65,000.00 [Surface Mail]
N80,000.00 [Second Class Air Mail]. Present issue N3,500 per copy. Subscribers who wish to obtain Gazette
after 1st January should apply to the Federal Government Printer, Lagos for amended Subscriptions.

===== [PAGE 2 of source scan] =====


===== [PAGE 3 of source scan] =====

COPYRIGHT ACT, 2022
\
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Section :
PART I —OBJECTIVES, SCOPE AND SUBSISTENCE OF COPYRIGHT
1. Objectives of the Act.
2. Works eligible for copyright.
3. Ineligibility for copyright.
4. Formalities.
5. Copyright by virtue of nationality or habitual residence.
6. Copyright by reference to country of origin.
7. Copyright in works of government, state authorities and international
bodies.
8. Copyright by reference to international agreements.
9. Nature of copyright in literary and musical works.
10. Nature of copyright in artistic works.
11. Nature of copyright in audiovisual works.
12. Nature of copyright in sound recordings.
13. Nature of copyright in broadcasts.
14. Author’s moral rights.
15. Right to remuneration for broadcasting of sound recordings.
16. Broadcasting of works incorporated in an audio-visual work.
17. Right to share in proceeds of sale.
18. Commencements of rights.
19. Duration of copyright.
PART II — EXCEPTIONS TO COPYRIGHT
20. General exceptions.
21. Acts for purposes of instruction or examination.
22. Recording of broadcasts by educational establishments.
23. Restriction on reprographic copying by educational institutions.
24. Subsequent dealings with authorised copies.
25. Special provisions for archives, libraries, museums and galleries.
26. Special exceptions for blind, visually impaired, or otherwise print
disabled persons.
27. Special exceptions in respect of sound recordings of musical works.

===== [PAGE 4 of source scan] =====

PART III — OWNERSHIP, TRANSFERS AND LICENCES
28. First ownership of copyright.
29. Ownership of copyright in collective works.
30. Assignment and licence.
31. Compulsory licence to produce and publish translations.
32. Compulsory licence to reproduce and publish works for certain purposes.
33. Licence for broadcasting organisations.
34. Definitions for the purposes of sections 31-33.
35. Compulsory licence for public interest.
PART IV — COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENTS
36. Infringement of copyright.
37. Action for infringement.
38. Order for inspection and seizure.
39. Limitation to the right of action.
40. Forfeiture of infringing copies.
41. Infringement actionable as a breach of statutory duty.
42. Admissibility of affidavit evidence.
43. Presumptions.
PART V — COPYRIGHT OFFENCES
44. Criminal liability.
45. Aiding and procuring copyright offence.
46. Offence by bodies corporate.
47. Simultaneous actions.
PART VI — ANTI-PIRACY AND OTHER MEASURES
48. Duty to keep records.
49. Anti-piracy measures.
50. Circumvention of technological protection measures.
51. Falsification, alteration or removal of rights management information.
52. Actions for circumvention of technological protection measures and
rights management information.
53. Restriction on importation.
PART VII — PROVISIONS RELATING TO ONLINE CONTENT
54. Notice to take down.
55. Take down of infringing content.
56. Procedure for suspension of accounts of repeat infringers.
57. Misrepresentation.
58. Information domiciled in systems or networks at direction of users.

===== [PAGE 5 of source scan] =====

59. Information location tools.
60. Identification of infringer.
61. Blocking access to online content.
62. Application of this Part.
PART VIII — PERFORMER’S RIGHTS
63. Right of performers.
64. Protected performance.
65. Presumption of consent.
66. Moral rights of performers.
67. Collective performances.
68. Exceptions to performer’s rights.
69. Transfer of performer’s rights in audio-visual fixations.
70. Duration of performer’s right.
71. Infringement of performer’s right.
72. Action for infringement of performer’s right.
73. Criminal liability in respect of infringement of performer’s right.
PART IX — EXPRESSIONS OF FOLKLORE
74. Protection of expressions of folklore.
75. Infringement of expressions of folklore.
76. Criminal liability in respect of infringement of expressions of folklore.
PART X — ESTABLISHMENT OF NIGERIAN COPYRIGHT COMMISSION
AND COPYRIGHT ADMINISTRATION
77. Establishment of the Nigerian Copyright Commission.
78. Functions and powers of the Commission.
79. Establishment and membership of the Governing Board.
80. Tenure of office.
81. Cessation of membership.
82. Removal of the Chairman or any member of the Board of the Commission.
83. Appointment of the Director-General and other staff of the Commission.
84. Removal of the Director-General, Chairman and other members of the Board.
85. Appointment of other staff of the Commission.
86. Copyright Officers.
87. Registration of Works.
88. Collective Management Organisations.
89. Levy on copyright material.
90. Dispute Resolution Panel.

===== [PAGE 6 of source scan] =====

PART XI — FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
91. Establishment of Fund for the Commission.
92. Expenditure of the Commission.
93. Annual estimates, accounts and audit.
94. Annual report.
95. Borrowing and investment power of the Commission.
PART XII — MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
96. Power to accept gifts.
97. Regulations.
98. Application of the Pensions Reform Act.
99. Power of the Minister to give directives.
100. Restriction on execution against property of the Commission.
101. Indemnity.
102. Avoidance of conflict of interest.
103. Jurisdiction.
104. Limitation on suit against the Commission.
105. Service of documents.
106. Repeals and savings provisions.
107. Transitional provisions.
108. Interpretation.
109. Citation.
SCHEDULE

===== [PAGE 7 of source scan] =====

Commencement.
COPYRIGHT ACT, 2022
ACT No. 8
AN ACT TO REPEAL THE COPYRIGHT ACT, CAP C28, LAWS OF THE FEDERATION OF NIGERIA,
2004 AND ENACT THE COPYRIGHT ACT 2022 TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGULATION,
PROTECTION AND ADMINISTRATION OF COPYRIGHT ; AND FOR RELATED MATTERS
[17th Day of March, 2023]
ENACTED by the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria—
PART I—OBJECTIVES AND APPLICATION
1. The objectives of this Act are to —
(a) protect the rights of authors to ensure just rewards and recognition
for their intellectual efforts ;
(b) provide appropriate limitations and exceptions to guarantee access
to creative works ;
(c) facilitate Nigeria’s compliance with obligations arising from relevant
international copyright treaties and conventions ; and
(d) enhance the capacity of the Nigerian Copyright Commission for
effective regulation, administration, and enforcement of the provisions of
this Act.
2.—(1) Subject to this Act, the following works shall be eligible for
copyright —
(a) literary works ;
(b) musical works ;
(c) artistic works ;
(d) audiovisual works ;
(e) sound recordings ; and
(f ) broadcasts.
(2) Notwithstanding the provision of subsection (1), literary, musical or
artistic work shall not be eligible for copyright unless —
(a) some effort has been expended on making the work, to give it an
original character ; and
(b) the work has been fixed in any medium of expression known or later
to be developed, from which it can be perceived, reproduced or otherwise
communicated either directly or with the aid of any machine or device.
(3) Any work that meets the requirements set out in subsection (2) shall
be eligible for copyright, notwithstanding the quality of the work or the purpose
for which the work was created.
Objectives
of the Act.
Works
eligible for
copyright.

===== [PAGE 8 of source scan] =====

(4) A work shall not be ineligible for copyright by reason only that the
making of the work or the doing of any act in relation to the work involved an
infringement of copyright in some other works.
(5) The copyright in a compilation shall not confer any exclusive right in
the pre-existing material or data.
(6) An artistic work shall not be eligible for copyright, if at the time the
work is made, it is intended by the author to be used as an industrial design, as
defined under the pattern designs.
3. The following shall not be eligible for copyright —
(a) ideas, procedures, processes, formats, systems, methods of operation,
concepts, principles, discoveries or mere data ;
(b) official texts of a legislative or administrative nature as well as any
official translations, except their compilations ; and
(c) official state symbols and insignia, including flags, coat-of-arms,
anthems, and banknote designs.
4. Eligibility for copyright under this Act shall not require any formality.
5. Copyright shall be conferred by this section on every work that is
eligible, where the author or in the case of a work of joint authorship, any of
the authors is at the time when the work or a substantial part made is —
(a) an individual who is a Nigerian citizen or is habitually resident in
Nigeria ; or
(b) a body corporate incorporated by or under the laws of Nigeria.
6. Copyright shall be conferred by this section on a work, which is a —
(a) literary, musical or artistic work or an audiovisual that is first published
in Nigeria ;
(b) sound recording made in Nigeria and has not been the subject of any
copyright conferred by section 2 of this Act ; or
(c) broadcast transmitted from Nigeria or by a broadcasting organisation
that has its headquarters situated in Nigeria.
7. Copyright shall be conferred by this section on a work that is eligible
and is made by or under the direction or control of a government, an agency of
government or a prescribed international body.
Ineligibility
for
copyright.
Formalities.
Copyright
by virtue of
nationality
or habitual
residence.
Copyright
by reference
to country
of origin.
Copyright in
works of
government,
state
authorities
and
international
bodies.

===== [PAGE 9 of source scan] =====

8.—(1) Copyright shall be conferred by this section on a work, if —
(a) on the date of its first publication, at least one of the authors is a —
(i) citizen of or habitually resident in, or
(ii) body corporate established by or under the laws of a country that
is a party to an obligation in a treaty or other international agreement to
which Nigeria is a party, or
(b) the work is first published in a country which is a party to an obligation
in a treaty or other international agreement to which Nigeria is a party.
(2) Where the question arises as to whether a country is a party to an
obligation in a treaty or other international agreement to which Nigeria is also
a party, a certification from the Commission to that effect shall be conclusive
proof of that fact.
9. Subject to the exceptions specified in Part II of this Act, copyright in
a literary or musical work shall be the exclusive right to do and authorise the
doing of any of the following acts —
(a) reproduce the work ;
(b) publish the work ;
(c) perform the work in public ;
(d) produce, reproduce, perform or publish any translation of the work ;
(e) make any audiovisual work or a record in respect of the work ;
(f ) distribute to the public, for commercial purposes, copies of the work,
through sale or other transfer of ownership provided the work has not been
subject to distribution authorised by the owner;
(g) broadcast the work ;
(h) communicate the work to the public ;
(i) make the work available to the public by wire or wireless means in
such a way that members of the public are able to access the work from a
place and at a time independently chosen by them ;
(j) make any adaptation of the work ; and
(k) do in relation to a translation or an adaptation of the work, any of the
acts specified in relation to the work specified under this section.
10.—(1) Subject to the exceptions specified in Part II of this Act,
copyright in an artistic work shall be the exclusive right to do and authorise the
doing of any of the following acts —
(a) reproduce the work ;
(b) publish the work ;
(c) include the work in an audiovisual work ;
(d) broadcast the work ;
(e) communicate the work to the public ;
Copyright
by reference
to
international
agreements.
Nature of
copyright
in artistic
works.

===== [PAGE 10 of source scan] =====

(f ) make the work available to the public by wire or wireless means in
such a way that members of the public are able to access the work from a
place and at a time individually chosen by them ;
(g) make any adaptation of the work ; and
(h) do in relation to an adaptation of the work any of the acts specified
in relation to the work under subsection (1)(a), (b) and (c).
(2) The protection of a three dimensional work of artistic craftsmanship
shall not extend to its functional aspects.
(3) Copyright in a work of architecture shall also include the exclusive
right to control the erection of any building, which reproduces the whole or a
substantial part of the work either in its original form or in any form recognisably
derived from the original, but not the right to control the reconstruction in the
same style as the original of a building to which the copyright relates.
11. Subject to the exceptions under Part II of this Act, copyright in an
audiovisual work shall be the exclusive right to do and authorise the doing of
any of the following acts —
(a) reproduce the audiovisual work ;
(b) cause the audiovisual work that consists of visual images to be seen
in public and of sounds to be heard in public ;
(c) communicate the audiovisual work to the public ;
(d) broadcast the audiovisual work ;
(e) make any copy of the sound track of an audiovisual work ;
(f ) make the work available to the public by wire or wireless means in
such a way that members of the public are able to access the work from a
place and at a time independently chosen by them ;
(g) distribute to the public, for commercial purposes, copies of the work,
through sale or other transfer of ownership provided the work has not been
subject to distribution authorised by the owner ;
(h) make an adaptation of the audiovisual work ;
(i) make a translation of the audiovisual work or any part ; and
(j) do in relation to a translation or an adaptation of the work, any of the
acts specified in relation to the work under this section.
12. Subject to the exceptions specified in Part II of this Act, copyright in
a sound recording shall be the exclusive right to do and authorise the doing of
any of the following act —
(a) reproduce the sound recording ;
(b) broadcast the sound recording ;
Nature of
copyright in
audiovisual
works.
Nature of
copyright in
sound
recordings.

===== [PAGE 11 of source scan] =====

(c) communicate the sound recording to the public ;
(d) make the sound recording available to the public by wire or wireless
means in such a way that members of the public are able to access the sound
recording from a place and at a time independently chosen by them ;
(e) distribute to the public for commercial purposes, copies of the sound
recording, either by way of rental, lease, hire, loan or similar arrangement ; or
(f ) distribute to the public, for commercial purposes, copies of the work,
through sale or other transfer of ownership provided the work has not been
subject to distribution authorised by the owner.
13.—(1) Subject to the exceptions specified in Part II of this Act,
copyright in a broadcast shall be the exclusive right to do and authorise the
doing of any of the following acts —
(a) rebroadcasting of the broadcast ;
(b) communication to the public of the broadcast ;
(c) making the broadcast available to the public by wire or wireless
means in such a way that members of the public are able to access the
work from a place and at a time independently chosen by them ;
(d) fixation of the broadcast ;
(e) reproduction of a fixation of the broadcast ;
(f ) adaptation of a fixation of the broadcast ; or
(g) distribution of a fixation of the broadcast or copies for commercial
purposes by way of rental, lease, hire, loan or similar arrangement.
(2) The copyright in a television broadcast shall include the right to
control the taking of still photographs from the broadcast.
(3) Cable operators who merely retransmit the broadcasts of broadcasting
organisations shall not be entitled to the rights provided for in subsection (1) in
respect of the broadcasts retransmitted.
14.—(1) Subject to Part II of this Act, the author of a work in which
copyright subsists has the right to —
(a) claim authorship of his work, in particular that his authorship be
indicated in connection with any of the acts referred to in sections 9, 10
and11of this Act, except when the work is incidentally or accidentally
included in a broadcast when reporting current events ; and
(b) object and to seek relief in connection with any distortion, mutilation
or other modification of, and any other derogatory action in relation to his
work, where such action would be or is prejudicial to his honour or reputation.
(2) A person has the right to object to a work being falsely attributed to
him as the author.
Author’s
moral rights.
Nature of
copyright in
broadcasts.

===== [PAGE 12 of source scan] =====

(3) The rights referred to in subsection (1) shall —
(a) not be transmissible during the life of the author ; and
(b) upon the death of the author, be transmissible by testamentary
disposition or by operation of law.
(4) The rights conferred by this section shall subsist for the duration of
the copyright in the work.
15.—(1) Where a sound recording has been published for commercial
purposes, the performer and owner of copyright of such sound recordings
shall enjoy the right to equitable remuneration for any broadcast of the sound
recording.
(2) The remuneration referred to in subsection (1), shall be paid by the
person who uses the sound recordings or copies.
(3) The amount of remuneration and the conditions of payment shall be
as agreed between the users of sound recordings on the one hand, the performer
and owner of copyright in sound recordings on the other hand or their
representatives ; and where the parties fail to reach an agreement, it shall be
determined by the Commission.
(4) Unless otherwise provided for in an agreement, the distribution of
the remuneration referred to in subsection (1) between the performer and the
owner of copyright in the sound recording shall be determined by the
Commission.
(5) Where remuneration is to be received on behalf of a performer and
the owner of copyright in the sound recording by more than one collective
management organisation, the collective management organisations concerned
shall agree on which of them shall collect such remuneration on their behalf,
failing which the Commission may specify accordingly.
(6) The provisions of subsection (1) shall be exercised without prejudice
to the right of a copyright owner to obtain remuneration for the use of his
work fixed in such sound recording.
(7) For the purposes of this section, sound recordings made available to
the public by wire or wireless means in such a way that members of the public
may be accessed from a place and at a time independently chosen by them
shall be deemed as published for commercial purposes.
(8) In the exercise of the rights under this section, the performer and
owner of copyright in a sound recording shall have a right to the logs, statements
and information relating to the broadcast of the sound recording.
Right to
remuneration
for
broadcasting
of sound
recordings.

===== [PAGE 13 of source scan] =====

16.—(1) Where the owner of the copyright in a literary, musical or
artistic work, authorises a person to incorporate the work in an audiovisual work and a broadcasting organisation broadcasts the audio-visual
work with the authorisation of the owner of the copyright in the audiovisual work, the owner of the copyright in the literary, musical or artistic
work incorporated in the audio-visual work, shall, in the absence of any
express agreement to the contrary between the owner of the underlying
work and the owner of the audio-visual work, be deemed to have authorised
the broadcast of the audio-visual work.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the owner of the right to broadcast
the work shall, subject to this Act, be entitled to receive fair compensation
from the broadcasting organisation.
(3) In the absence of an agreement on the compensation payable under
subsection (2), the amount of compensation shall be determined by the
Commission.
17.—(1)Notwithstanding any assignment or sale of the original work,
an author of an artistic work, manuscript of a literary work or of a musical
composition, shall have an inalienable right to a share in the proceeds of any
sale of that work or manuscript, by public auction or through a dealer,
subsequent to the first transfer by the author.
(2) The right conferred by this section shall apply only to originals of
such work.
(3) The condition for the exercise of the right conferred by this section
shall be determined by regulations made by the Commission.
(4) The provisions of this section shall not apply to architectural works
or works of applied art.
(5) In this section, “author” includes heirs and successors-in-title.
18. Subject to the provisions of sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of this Act,
copyright shall commence when the work is created or made.
19.—(1) The duration of copyright conferred under this Act shall be, in
the case of —
(a) literary, musical or artistic works other than photographs, 70 years
after the end of the year in which the author dies ;
(b) works deriving copyrights from section 7 of this Act, 50 years after
the end of the year in which the work was first made available to the public
or 50 years after the work was created, if not made available to the public
within that time ;
Broadcasting
of works
incorporated
in an audiovisual work.
Right to
share in
proceeds
of sale.
Commencements of
rights.
Duration of
copyright.

===== [PAGE 14 of source scan] =====

(c) audiovisual works and photographs, 50 years after the end of the
year in which the work was first made available to the public with the
consent of the author or 50 years after the work was created, if not made
available to the public within that time ;
(d) sound recordings, 50 years after the end of the year in which the
recording was first made available to the public with the consent of the
author or 50 years after the work was created, if not made available to the
public within that time ; and
(e) broadcasts, 50 years after the end of the year in which the broadcast
first took place.
(2) Copyright in anonymous or pseudonymous literary, musical or artistic
works shall subsist until 70 years after the year in which the work was first
made available to the public with the consent of the author or 70 years after
the work was created, if not made available to the public within that time,
provided that when the author becomes known, the duration of copyright shall
be in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1).
(3) In joint authorship work, reference to the death of the author shall be
to the author who dies last.
PART II — EXCEPTIONS TO COPYRIGHT
20.—(1) The rights conferred in respect of a work under sections 9-13
of this Act, do not include the right to control any of the acts specified in those
sections by way of fair dealing for purposes such as —
(a) private use ;
(b) parody, satire, pastiche, or caricature ;
(c) non-commercial research and private study ;
(d) criticism, review or the reporting of current events, subject to the
condition that, if the use is public, it shall, where practicable, be accompanied
by an acknowledgment of the title of the work and its author except where
the work is incidentally included in a broadcast :
Provided that in determining whether the use of a work in any particular case
is fair dealing, the factors to be considered shall include the —
(i) purpose and character of its usage,
(ii) nature of the work,
(iii) amount and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the
work as a whole, and
(iv) effect of the use upon the potential market or value of the work ;
(e) the inclusion in an audiovisual work or a broadcast of an artistic
work situated in a place where it can be viewed by the public ;
General
exceptions.

===== [PAGE 15 of source scan] =====

(f ) the incidental inclusion of an artistic work in an audiovisual work or
broadcast ;
(g) quotations in the form of short excerpts from a work ;
(h) reading or recitation in public or in a broadcast, not for commercial
purposes, of any reasonable extract from a published literary work if,
accompanied by an acknowledgment of the title of the work and its
author ;
(i) any use made of a work by or under the direction or control of the
Government or by such public libraries, non-commercial documentation
centres and scientific or other institutions as may be prescribed, where the
use is in the public interest, provided that —
(i) no revenue is derived, and
(ii) the use does not substantially affect the potential market or value
of the work ;
(j) the reproduction of a work by or under the direction or control of a
broadcasting organisation, where the reproduction or any copies are intended
exclusively for a lawful broadcast and are destroyed before the end of the
period of six months immediately following the making of the reproduction or
such longer period as may be agreed between the broadcasting organisation
and the owner of the relevant part of the copyright in the work, provided that
any reproduction of a work made under this paragraph —
(i) may, if it is of an exceptional documentary character, be preserved
in the archives of the broadcasting organization,
(ii) shall not be used for any other purpose without the consent of the
owner of copyright in the relevant part of the work, and
(iii) “lawful broadcast” means a broadcast that does not infringe on
the copyright in the work ;
(k) news of the day for public broadcast or publicly communicated by
any other means ;
(l) any use made of a work for the purpose of judicial or legislative
proceedings or the reporting of such proceedings ;
(m) the making of not more than three copies of a work, by or under the
direction of the person in charge of a public library, for the use of the
library, where such a work is not available for purchase ;
(n) reproduction for the purpose of research or private study of an
unpublished literary or musical work kept in a library, museum or other
similar institutions to which the public has access ;
(o) transient and incidental reproductions, which are integral and essential
parts of a technological process, whose sole purpose is to enable transmission

===== [PAGE 16 of source scan] =====

in a network between third parties by an intermediary or for other lawful
use, where such use has no independent economic significance ;
(p) without prejudice to section 26 of this Act, use for the benefit of
persons with disabilities and of a non-commercial nature, to the extent
required by the specific disability ;
(q) use of an artistic work in the form of a building model or a drawing
or plan of a building for the purposes of reconstructing the building ; and
(r) communication or making available of works and other material not
subject to purchase or licensing terms to members of the public for the
purpose of research or private study through dedicated terminals on the
premises of publicly accessible libraries, educational establishments,
museums and archives.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 9 of this Act, reproduction
of a copy or the adaptation of a computer program is permitted, if the copy or
adaptation is necessary for —
(a) use with a computer for the purpose for which the computer program
was obtained ;
(b) archival purposes or as a replacement, in the event that the original
copy of the computer program is lost, destroyed or rendered unusable ; and
(c) the activation of a machine that lawfully contains an authorised copy
of the computer program, for purposes of maintenance or repair only of
that machine, subject to the condition that—–
(i) such new copy is used in no other manner and is destroyed
immediately after the maintenance or repair is completed, and
(ii) with respect to any computer program or part that is not necessary
for that machine to be activated, such program or part is not accessed or
used other than to make such new copy by virtue of the activation of the
machine.
(3) Any contractual term which purports to restrict or prevent the doing
of any act permitted under this Act shall be void.
21.—(1) Copyright in a literary, musical or artistic work is not infringed
by its being copied in the course of instruction or of preparation for instruction,
provided the copying is done by a person giving or receiving instruction and is
not by means of a reprographic process.
(2) Copyright in a sound recording, audiovisual work, broadcast or cable
programme is not infringed by its being copied in the course of instruction at a
non-profit educational institution or of preparation for instruction, provided the
copying is done by and used for the instruction by a person giving or receiving
instruction.
Acts for
purposes of
instruction
or
examination.

===== [PAGE 17 of source scan] =====

(3) Copyright in a work is not infringed by anything done for the purposes
of an examination by way of setting, communicating or answering questions.
22.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the recording of a broadcast or
cable programme or a copy of such a recording by or on behalf of an
educational establishment for educational purposes of that establishment
shall not infringe the copyright in the broadcast or cable programme or in
any work included in it.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not apply to the extent that there is a licensing
scheme for the purposes.
23.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the reprographic copying
of passages from published literary or musical works by or on behalf of an
educational establishment for the purposes of instruction shall not infringe the
copyright in the work.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), not more than five
per cent of a work shall be copied by or on behalf of an educational establishment
within a period of three months.
(3) The provisions of this section shall not apply where there is a licensing
scheme for reprographic copying.
(4) Any term of a licence which purports to restrict the proportion of
work, which may be copied to less than that permitted under this section shall
be of no effect.
24.—(1) Where a copy of a work authorised under sections 21, 22 and
23 of this Act is subsequently dealt with by way of sale, offering for sale or
rental, it shall be treated as an infringing copy for the purposes of that dealing.
(2) Where a person requesting a copy makes a declaration that is false
in a material particular and is supplied with the copy, which would have been
an infringing copy, if made by him, that person shall be liable for infringement
of copyright as if, he had made the copy himself and the copy supplied shall be
treated as an infringing copy.
25.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 9-13 of this Act,
archives, libraries, museums and galleries, may for non-commercial
purposes —
(a) make and distribute copies of works protected under this Act as part
of their ordinary activities ;
(b) make copies of works in their collection for the purpose of back-up
and preservation ;
(c) make or procure a copy of any missing part of a work in its collection
from another institution ;
Recording of
broadcasts
by
educational
establishments.
Restriction
on
reprographic
copying by
educational
institutions.
Subsequent
dealings with
authorised
copies.
Special
provisions
for archives,
libraries,
museums
and galleries.

===== [PAGE 18 of source scan] =====

(d) make or procure a copy of any work that is or should be available in
its collection in any chosen format, where the work cannot reasonably be
acquired in that format through general trade or from the publisher ; or
(e) make or procure a copy of any work where the permission of the
owner of the copyright cannot be obtained, after reasonable effort, or where
the work is not available by general trade or from the publisher.
(2) Copies of works made in whatever format in accordance with
subsection (1) may be —
(a) lent to users ; or
(b) used for private study or research on the premises of the institution
with or without the means of technical equipment.
26.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other section of this
Act, an authorised entity may, without the permission of the owner of copyright
in a work, make or procure an accessible format copy of a work or subject
matter and supply the copy to beneficiary persons by any means, including
non-profit lending, or electronic communication by wire or wireless means, on
the condition that the —
(a) authorised entity desiring to undertake any of the activities under
this section has lawful access to that work or subject matter or a copy of
that work or subject matter ;
(b) work or subject matter is converted to an accessible format copy ;
(c) accessible format copy is supplied to be used exclusively by
beneficiary persons ; and
(d) activity is undertaken on a non-profit basis.
(2) For the purpose of the requirement of subsection (1) (c), an authorised
entity shall establish and follow its own practices, to —
(a) establish that the persons it serves are beneficiary persons ;
(b) limit its distribution to beneficiary persons or authorised entities and
in making available of accessible format copies ;
(c) discourage the reproduction, distribution and making available of
unauthorised copies ; and
(d) maintain due care in, and records of, its handling of copies of works
or other subject matter while respecting the privacy of beneficiary persons.
(3) A beneficiary person is permitted to make an accessible format
copy of a work or other subject matter for his personal use, where he has
lawful access to that work or subject matter or a copy of that work or subject
matter.
Special
exceptions
for blind,
visually
impaired, or
otherwise
print
disabled
persons.

===== [PAGE 19 of source scan] =====

(4) A person acting on behalf of a beneficiary person, including a primary
caretaker or caregiver, may assist the beneficiary person to make accessible
format copies where the beneficiary person has lawful access to that work or
subject matter or a copy of that work or subject matter.
(5) An authorised entity may, without the permission of the owner of a
copyright, distribute or make available accessible format copies to an authorised
entity in another country for the exclusive use of beneficiary persons or to a
beneficiary person in another country, provided that prior to the distribution or
making available, the authorised entity did not know or have reasonable grounds
to know that the accessible format copy would be used other than for the
beneficiary persons.
(6) An authorised entity, a beneficiary person or a person acting on his
behalf including a primary caretaker or caregiver, may without the permission
of the owner of copyright import an accessible format copy, including by wire
or wireless means.
(7) For the purposes of this section —
(a) “works” include literary and artistic works in the form of text, notation
or related illustrations that are not available in accessible formats ;
(b) “accessible format copy” means a copy of a work in an alternative
manner or form which —
(i) gives a beneficiary person access to the work, as feasibly and
comfortably as a person without visual impairment or other print
disability, and
(ii) respects the integrity of the original work, taking due consideration
of the changes needed to make the work accessible in the alternative
format and of the accessibility needs of the beneficiary persons ;
(c) “authorised entity” means —
(i) an entity that is authorised or recognized by the government, or
receives financial support from the government, to provide education,
instructional training, adaptive reading or information access to beneficiary
persons on a non-profit basis, or
(ii) a government institution or non-profit organisation that provides
education, instructional training, adaptive reading or information access
to beneficiary persons as part of its primary activities or institutional
obligations ; and
(d) “beneficiary person” means a person who, regardless of any other
disabilities —
(i) is blind,

===== [PAGE 20 of source scan] =====

(ii) has a visual impairment or a perceptual or reading disability which
cannot be improved to give visual function substantially equivalent to
that of a person who has no such impairment or disability and so is
unable to read printed works to substantially the same degree as a person
without an impairment or disability, or
(iii) is otherwise unable, through physical disability, to hold or
manipulate a book or to focus or move the eyes to the extent that would
be normally acceptable for reading.
27.—(1) The copyright in a musical work is not infringed by a person
who makes a recording of the work or of an adaptation in Nigeria, if —
(a) recording of the work or adaptation, has previously been made,
imported into or otherwise made available in Nigeria, for the purpose of
retail sale with the consent or licence of the owner of the copyright ;
(b) before making the recording, the person gives notice in the prescribed
manner of his intention to record to the owner of the copyright or the relevant
approved collective management organisation ; and
(c) the person pays to the owner of the copyright or the relevant approved
collective management organisation a royalty of an amount equal to a
percentage of the ordinary retail selling price of the record calculated in
accordance with regulations made by the Commission.
(2) Where a recording comprises two or more musical works in which
copyright subsists and the owners of the copyright in the works are different
persons, the royalty shall be apportioned among them in such manner as they
may agree or in default of such agreement, in accordance with the rules of the
relevant collective management organisations or the regulations made under
this Act.
 (3) Where a recording comprises of a performance of a musical work
or of an adaptation of a musical work, in which words comprised in a literary
work are sung or are spoken and no copyright subsists in that literary work or
where copyright subsists, the conditions specified in subsection (1) are fulfilled
in relation to that copyright, the making of the recording shall not constitute an
infringement of the copyright in the literary work.
(4) The provisions of subsection (3), shall not be construed as requiring
the payment of more than one royalty in respect of a recording and where
copyright subsists in both the musical work and literary work and their owners
are different, the royalty shall be apportioned among them and any other person
entitled to a share, as they may agree or in default of agreement, shall be
determined by the rules of the relevant collective management organisation or
the regulations made under this section.
Special
exceptions in
respect of
sound
recordings of
musical
works.

===== [PAGE 21 of source scan] =====

(5) For the purpose of this section, an adaptation of a work shall be
taken to be similar to an adaptation contained in previous records, if the two
adaptations do not differ substantially in their treatment of the work, in respect
of style or apart from a difference in number of the performers required to
perform the adaptations.
(6) The Commission shall have power to make regulations providing for
conditions necessary to give effect to the purposes of this Part.
PART III — OWNERSHIP, TRANSFERS AND LICENCES
28.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in an agreement, copyright
conferred by this Act, shall initially vest in the author.
(2) Where a person in the absence of an agreement to the contrary,
creates a work under a contract for services, or in the course of employment
by a government, a ministry, department or agency of a government or a
prescribed international or inter-governmental organisation, the copyright in
that work shall vest in that government, ministry, department, agency, prescribed
international or inter-governmental organisation.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1) and subject to any agreement
between the parties, where a person for private and domestic purposes,
commissions the taking of a photograph or the painting or drawing of a
portrait or the making of an audiovisual work, the person who commissioned
the work shall be —
(a) deemed to have a non-exclusive licence to exploit the commissioned
work for non-commercial purposes ; and
(b) entitled to restrain the publication, exhibition, broadcasting,
communication, distribution and making available of copies of the work to
the public.
29. Except as otherwise provided by agreement —
(a) copyright in a collective work shall vest in the person on whose
initiative or direction the work was created ; and
(b) the authors of the works incorporated in a collective work shall have
the right to exploit their works independent of the right in the collective
work.
30.—(1) For the purpose of Chapter 4 of the Constitution of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria 1999, copyright shall be deemed to be movable property
and shall be transferable by way of assignment, testamentary disposition or
operation of law.
First
ownership
of copyright.
Ownership
of copyright
in collective
works.
Assignment
and licence.
Cap. C23,
LFN, 2004.

===== [PAGE 22 of source scan] =====

(2) An assignment or testamentary disposition of copyright may be
limited to only some of the acts, which the owner of the copyright has the
exclusive right to control or to a part only of the period of the copyright, or to
a specified country or other geographical area.
(3) An assignment of copyright or an exclusive licence to do an act, the
doing of which is controlled by copyright, shall have no effect unless it is in
writing.
(4) A non-exclusive licence to do an act, the doing of which is controlled
by copyright, may be written, oral, or inferred from conduct of the owner of
copyright.
(5) An assignment or licence granted by one copyright owner, shall
have effect as if granted by his co-owner and subject to any agreement between
them, any fee received shall be divided equitably among the co-owners.
(6) For the purposes of this section, persons shall be deemed to be coowners, if they —
(a) share joint interest in the whole or any part of a copyright ; or
(b) have interests in the copyright in various works comprised in a
production of two or more works.
(7) Ownership of a material in which a work is embodied shall not
confer ownership of copyright in the work.
(8) Except as may otherwise be provided for in an agreement, an owner
of copyright who transfers the ownership of the material in which the work is
embodied, shall not be deemed to have transferred his copyright or to have
granted a licence for the exploitation of the work.
(9) Except as may otherwise be provided for in an agreement, an owner
of copyright who transfers his copyright or grants a licence for the exploitation
of a work shall not be deemed to have transferred the ownership of the material
in which the work is embodied.
(10) An assignment, licence or testamentary disposition, may be granted
or made in respect of a future work or an existing work in which copyright
does not subsist, provided that it shall not be permitted to transfer the rights in
all future works of an author.
 (11) A testamentary disposition of a material on which a work is first
written or recorded shall, in the absence of any indication to the contrary, be
presumed to include any copyright or prospective copyright in the work, which
is vested in the deceased.

===== [PAGE 23 of source scan] =====

31.—(1) Any qualified person may, for the purposes of teaching,
scholarship or research, apply to the Commission for a licence to produce and
publish a translation of a literary work, which has been published in printed or
analogous forms of reproduction.
(2) An application under this section shall be made in the prescribed
form and shall state the proposed retail price of a copy of the translation of the
work.
(3) An applicant for a licence under this section shall pay such fee as
may be prescribed by the Commission.
(4) Where an application is made to the Commission under this section,
the Commission may grant to the applicant a non-exclusive licence to produce
and publish a translation of the work in the language mentioned in the application
subject to the conditions that —
(a) the applicant shall pay to the owner of the copyright in the work,
royalties in respect of copies of the translation of the work produced,
calculated at such rate as the Commission may, in the circumstances of
each case determine and consistent with the standards for licences freely
negotiated between persons in Nigeria and owners of translation rights in
their country ;
(b) the licence shall not extend to the export of copies of the translation
of the work outside Nigeria ; and
(c) every copy of such translation shall contain a notice in the language
of the translation that the copy is available for distribution only in Nigeria.
(5) Subsection (4) shall not apply to export by Government or any of its
agencies, of copies of such translation in a language other than English to
any country, if such copies are —
(a) sent to citizens of Nigeria residing outside Nigeria or to any
association of such citizens outside Nigeria ; or
(b) meant to be used for purposes of teaching, scholarship or research
and the government of the country to which the copies are exported agree
to receive or distribute the copies.
(6) A licence shall not be granted by the Commission under this section
until the expiration of —
(a) one year from the date of first publication of the work, where the
application is for a licence for translation into any language spoken in Nigeria
other than English ; or
(b) three years from the date of first publication of the work, where the
application is for a licence for translation into English.
Compulsory
licence to
produce and
publish
translations.

===== [PAGE 24 of source scan] =====

(7) A licence shall not be granted by the Commission, except —
(a) the Commission is satisfied that no translation of the work into the
language in question has been published in printed or analogous forms of
reproduction, by or with the permission of the owner of the right of translation
or that all previous editions in that language are out of print ;
(b) the applicant has proved to the satisfaction of the Commission that
he had requested and had been denied permission by the owner of the
copyright to produce and publish such translation or that he was, after due
diligence on his part, unable to find such owner ;
(c) where the applicant after due diligence on his part, was unable to
find the owner of the copyright and that he had sent a request for permission
to the publisher whose name appears on the work, not less than two months
before applying for the licence ;
(d) the applicant had at the time he submitted an application under
this section informed any national or international information centre
designated for this purpose by the government of the country in which
the publisher of the work to be translated is believed to have his principal
place of business ;
(e) the Commission is satisfied that the applicant is competent to produce
and publish a correct translation of the work and possesses the means to
pay to the owner of the copyright the royalties required to be paid to him
under this Act ;
(f ) a period of six months, in the case of an application for a licence for
translation into English or nine months in the case of an application for a
licence for translation into any other language spoken in Nigeria has lapsed
from the date of making the request under subsection (1)(b) ;
(g) where a request has been sent under subsection (1)(c), a period of
six months has lapsed from the date of sending the request and the translation
of the work in the language mentioned in the application has not been
published by the owner of the copyright in the work or any person authorised
by him within a period of nine months ;
(h) the name of the author and the title of the particular edition of the
work proposed to be translated are printed on all copies of the translation ;
(i) where the work is composed mainly of illustrations, the provisions of
section 6 of this Act are complied with ;
(j) the author has not withdrawn copies of the work from circulation ; and
(k) an opportunity of being heard is given by the Commission, wherever
practicable, to the owner of the copyright in the work.

===== [PAGE 25 of source scan] =====

(8) The Commission may withdraw the licence granted under this section
where the circumstance that led to its grant has ceased to exist.
32.—(1) Where, after the expiration of the relevant period from the
date of the first publication of an edition of a literary or artistic work —
(a) the copies of such edition are not made available in Nigeria ; or
(b) such copies have not been put on sale in Nigeria for a period of six
months, by the owner of the right of reproduction or by any person authorised
by him in that behalf to the general public, or in connection with systematic
instructional activities at a price reasonably related to that normally charged
in Nigeria for comparable works,a qualified person may apply to the
Commission for a licence to reproduce and publish the work in any form,
for the purpose of systematic instructional activities, at the price for which
such edition is sold or at a lower price.
(2) An application under this section shall be made in a prescribed form
and shall state the proposed retail price of a copy of the work to be reproduced.
(3) An applicant for a licence under this section shall pay such fees as
may be prescribed by the Commission.
(4) Where an application is made to the Commission under this section,
the Commission may grant to the applicant a non-exclusive licence to produce
and publish a reproduction of the work mentioned in the application subject to
the conditions that —
(a) the applicant shall pay to the owner of the copyright in the work,
royalties in respect of copies of the reproduction calculated at such rate as
the Commission may, in the circumstances of each case determine as
consistent with the standards for licences freely negotiated between persons
in Nigeria and owners of reproduction rights in their country ;
(b) the licence shall not extend to the export of copies of the reproduction
of the work outside Nigeria ; and
(c) every copy of such reproduction shall contain a notice that the copy
is available for distribution only in Nigeria.
(5) A licence shall not be granted by the Commission, except —
(a) the applicant has proved to the satisfaction of the Commission that
he had requested and had been denied permission by the owner of the
copyright to reproduce and publish such work, or that he was, after due
diligence on his part, unable to find such owner ;
(b) where the applicant exercised due diligence and was unable to find
the owner of the copyright and that he had sent a request for permission to
the publisher whose name appears on the work, not less than three months
before applying for the licence ;
Compulsory
licence to
reproduce
and publish
works for
certain
purposes.

===== [PAGE 26 of source scan] =====

(c) the applicant had at the time he submitted an application under
this section informed any national or international information centre
designated for this purpose by the government of the country in which
the publisher of the work to be reproduced is believed to have his principal
place of business ;
(d) the Commission is satisfied that the applicant is competent to
reproduce and publish an accurate reproduction of the work and possesses
the means to pay to the owner of the copyright, the royalties required to be
paid to him under this section ;
(e) the applicant undertakes to reproduce and publish the work at such
price as may be fixed by the Commission at a price normally charged in
Nigeria for similar works of the same standard ;
(f ) a period of six months, in the case of an application for the reproduction
and publication of any work of natural science, physical science, mathematics
or technology or a period of three months in the case of an application for
the reproduction and publication of any other work, has lapsed from the
date of making the request under subsection (1)(a) or where a copy of the
request has been sent under subsection (1)(b), from the date of sending of
a copy and a reproduction of the work has not been published by the owner
of the copyright in the work or any person authorised by him within a period
of six months or three months, as the case may be ;
(g) the name of the author and the title of the particular edition of the
work proposed to be reproduced are printed on all the copies of the
reproduction ;
(h) the author has not withdrawn copies of the work from circulation ; and
(i) an opportunity of being heard is given by the Commission, wherever
practicable, to the owner of the copyright in the work.
(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a licence to reproduce
and publish translation of a work shall not be granted save such translation has
been published by the owner of the right of translation in a language spoken in
Nigeria.
(7) The provisions of sections 31 and 32 of this Act shall also apply to
the reproduction and publication or translation into a language spoken in Nigeria,
of any text incorporated in audio-visual fixations prepared and published solely
for the purpose of systematic instructional activities.
(8) In this section “relevant period” in relation to any work, means a
period of —
(a) seven years from the date of the first publication of a work in respect
of fiction, poetry, drama, music or art ; and

===== [PAGE 27 of source scan] =====

(b) three years from the date of the first publication of a work in respect
of natural science, physical science, mathematics or technology.
33.—(1) A broadcasting organisation in Nigeria may apply to the
Commission for a licence to produce and publish, for non-commercial purposes,
the translation of —
(a) a work referred to in section 31 of this Act ; or
(b) any text incorporated in audio-visual works, prepared and published
solely for the purpose of systematic instructional activities, for broadcasting
such translation for the purpose of teaching or for the dissemination of the
results of specialised, technical or scientific research to the experts in any
particular field.
34.—(1) For the purposes of sections 31-33 of this Act “qualified person”
means —
(a) a citizen of Nigeria or an individual habitually resident in Nigeria ; or
(b) a body corporate incorporated under any written law in Nigeria.
(2) “research” shall not include industrial research or research carried
out by bodies corporate not owned or controlled by the Government, carrying
on any business.
(3) “purposes of teaching, research or scholarship” includes all types
of organised educational and instructional activities at any level in educational
institutions.
35.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, the Commission
may authorise the use of a work by any person for the purpose of rectifying
the abuse of a dominant market position or to promote public interest.
(2) An application for a licence under this section shall be made in a
manner prescribed, accompanied with evidence of payment of a prescribed
fee and good cause shown for the grant of the licence by the Commission.
(3) The Commission may authorise the use of a work under subsection
(1) after taking into consideration that the —
(a) proposed user has made reasonable effort to obtain permission from
the owner of copyright on reasonable commercial terms and conditions and
that the effort was not successful ;
(b) scope, medium and duration of the use shall be limited to the purpose
for which it was authorised ;
(c) use shall be non-exclusive and non-assignable ;
(d) use shall be exclusively for Nigeria’s domestic market ; and
(e) copyright owner receives payment of adequate remuneration, taking
into account the economic value of the work authorised to be used.
Licence for
broadcasting
organisations.
Definitions
for the
purposes
of sections
31-33.
Compulsory
licence for
public
interest.

===== [PAGE 28 of source scan] =====

(4) Subject to adequate protection of the interests of the authorised
persons, the authorisation may be withdrawn where the circumstances that
led to its grant has ceased to exist.
(5) The Commission may waive the condition stipulated in subsection
(3)(a) in the event of national emergency or other circumstances of extreme
urgency and notify the owner of copyright.
(6) The Commission may make regulations providing for conditions
necessary to give effect to the provisions of this section.
(7) A person who is dissatisfied with an authorisation granted by the
Commission under this section or any remuneration required to be paid under
the authorisation granted by the Commission, may apply to the Court for a
review.
PART IV — COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENTS
36. Copyright is infringed by any person who without the authorisation
of the owner of the copyright —
(a) does or causes any person to do an act, which constitutes a violation
of the exclusive rights conferred under this Act ;
(b) imports or causes to be imported into Nigeria any copy of a work
which if it had been made in Nigeria would be an infringing copy under this
Act ;
(c) sells, offers for sale or hire any work in respect of which copyright
is infringed under paragraph (a) ;
(d) makes or has in his possession, plates, master tapes, machines,
equipment or contrivances used for the sole purpose of making infringing
copies of the work ;
(e) permits a place of public entertainment or of business to be used for
a public performance of the work, where the performance constitutes an
infringement of copyright in the work, unless the person permitting the
place to be used was not aware and had no reasonable ground to suspect
that the performance constitutes an infringement of the copyright ;
(f ) permits within its premises, the reproduction of a copyright work ; or
(g) performs or causes to be performed for the purposes of trade or
business or the promotion of a trade or business, any work in which copyright
subsists.
(2) The doing of any of the acts referred to in this section shall be in
respect of the whole or a substantial part of the work either in its original form
or in any form recognisably derived from the original.
Infringement
of copyright.

===== [PAGE 29 of source scan] =====

37.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, infringement of copyright
shall be actionable at the instance of the owner, assignee or an exclusive
licensee of the copyright in the court exercising jurisdiction in the place where
the infringement occurred.
(2) In any action for an infringement of copyright, the plaintiff shall
be entitled to reliefs such as damages, injunction, accounts or as is available
in any corresponding proceedings in respect of infringement of other
proprietary rights.
(3) Where an action for infringement of copyright brought by the copyright
owner or an exclusive licensee relates to an infringement in respect of which
both have concurrent rights of action, the copyright owner or the exclusive
licensee may not, without the leave of court, proceed with the action unless
the other is joined as a plaintiff or added as a defendant.
(4) In an action for infringement of copyright, where it is proved or
admitted that an infringement was committed, but that at the time of infringement,
the defendant was not aware and had no reasonable grounds to suspect that
copyright subsisted in the work to which the action relates, the plaintiff shall
not be entitled to any damages against the defendant in respect of the
infringement, but shall be entitled to an account of profits in respect of the
infringement, whether or not any other relief is granted.
(5) Where in an action under this section, an infringement of copyright
is proved or admitted and the court in which the action is brought, is satisfied
that effective relief would not otherwise be available to the plaintiff, the court,
in assessing damages for the infringement, shall have power to award such
additional damages as the court may consider appropriate in the circumstances
and having regard to —
(a) the flagrancy of the infringement ; and
(b) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by reason of
the infringement.
(6) In any proceeding for infringement of copyright, no order shall be
made, which requires a completed or an uncompleted building to be demolished
or prevents the completion of an uncompleted building.
(7) Any disputes arising from the exercise of a right under this Act, may
be subject to arbitration and may be resolved by any means agreed to by the
parties to the dispute.
(8) In this section, “action” includes a counterclaim and references to
the plaintiff or the defendant, shall be construed accordingly.
Action for
infringement.

===== [PAGE 30 of source scan] =====

38.—(1) In any action for infringement of any right under this Act,
where an ex parte application is made to the court, supported with an affidavit,
that there is reasonable cause to suspect that there is in any house or premises
an infringing copy or any plate, film, device or contrivance used, intended to
be used or capable of being used for the purpose of making infringing copies,
the court may issue an order as it deems just, authorising the applicant to enter
the house or premises at any reasonable time by day or night accompanied by
a police officer or a Copyright Officer, to —
(a) seize, detain and preserve the infringing copy or contrivance ; and
(b) inspect any document, relating to the action, in the custody or under
the control of the defendant.
(2) Any person who knowingly gives false information under this section
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N100,000 or
imprisonment for a term of at least one year or both.
39. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act or any other law, no
action for an infringement of copyright or any right under this Act shall be
commenced or maintained by any person or organisation, who —
(a) engages in the business of negotiating and granting of licence ;
(b) collects and distributes royalties in respect of copyright works ; and
(c) represents more than 50 owners of copyright in any category of
works protected under this Act, unless it is approved under section 88 of
this Act to operate as a collective management organisation or issued with
a certificate of exemption by the Commission.
40. Where a person has an infringing copy of a work in his possession,
custody, or control in the course of business or has in his possession, custody or
control an article specifically designed or adapted for making copies of a particular
copyright work, knowing or having reason to believe that it has been or is to be
used to make infringing copies, the owner of the copyright in the work may
apply to the court for an order that the infringing copy or article be —
(a) forfeited to him or any other person, or
(b) destroyed or otherwise dealt with as the court may deem fit.
41.—(1) An infringement of the rights conferred by section 14 of this
Act is actionable as a breach of statutory duty owed to the person entitled to
the right.
(2) In any proceeding for infringement of a right conferred under section
14 of this Act, the person whose rights has been infringed upon shall be entitled
to an award of damages, injunction and any other remedy as the court may
deem fit to award in the circumstances.
Order for
inspection
and seizure.
Limitation to
the right of
action.
Forfeiture of
infringing
copies.
Infringement
actionable as
a breach of
statutory
duty.

===== [PAGE 31 of source scan] =====

42. Any of the following facts shall be admitted in any proceedings
without further proof, if they are stated in an affidavit made before a
Commissioner for Oaths, notary public or other person competent to administer
an oath in terms of the law of the country where the oath is made, by or on
behalf of the owner of the copyright in a work, that —
(a) at the time specified, copyright subsists in the work ;
(b) the person named is the owner of the copyright in the work ;
(c) a copy of the work exhibited to the affidavit is a true copy of the
work ;
(d) the author of the work is a citizen of or domiciled in a country named
in the affidavit ;
(e) the author of the work is a body corporate established or incorporated
by or under the laws of the country named in the affidavit ;
(f ) the work was first made or published in the country named in the
affidavit ; and
(g) the certificate attached to the affidavit is a true copy of the certificate
or registration of that incorporation.
43. In an action for infringement of copyright in a work, whether civil or
criminal, the following shall be presumed, where such work has been registered
under section 87 of this Act —
(a) that copyright subsists in the work which is the subject matter of an
alleged infringement ;
(b) that the name appearing on the work purporting to be the name of
the author, is the name of such author ;
(c) that the name appearing on the work purporting to be that of the
publisher or producer of the work is the name of such publisher or
producer ;
(d) where the author is dead, that the work is an original work ; and
(e) that it was published or produced at the place and on the date
appearing on the work.
PART V — COPYRIGHT OFFENCES
44.—(1) Any person who —
(a) makes or causes to be made for sale, hire or for the purposes of trade
or business any infringing copy of a work in which copyright subsists ;
(b) imports or causes to be imported into Nigeria, other than for private
or domestic use, a copy of any work which, if it had been made in Nigeria,
would be an infringing copy ; or
Admissibility
of affidavit
evidence
Presumptions.
Criminal
liability.

===== [PAGE 32 of source scan] =====

(c) has in his possession, any plate, master tape, machine, equipment,
device or contrivance for the purposes of making any infringing copy of
any such work,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N10,000 for
every copy dealt with in contravention of this section or imprisonment for a
term of at least five years or both.
(2) Any person who —
(a) sells, lets for hire or for the purposes of trade or business, exposes
or offers for sale any infringing copy of a work,
(b) distributes for the purposes of trade or business any infringing copy
of a work,
(c) has in his possession other than for his private or domestic use, any
infringing copy of a work, or
(d) has in his possession, sells, lets for hire or distributes for the purposes
of trade or business or exposes or offers for sale or hire any copy of a work
which if it had been made in Nigeria would be an infringing copy,
commits an offence andis liable on conviction to a fine of at least N10,000 for
every copy dealt with in contravention of this section or imprisonment for a
term of at least three years or both.
(3) A person is not guilty of an offence under subsections (1) and (2) if,
he proves to the satisfaction of the court that he did not know and had no
reason to believe that the copy was an infringing copy of any work or that the
plate, master tape, machine, equipment or contrivance was for the purpose of
making infringing copies of any such work.
(4) Any person who, without the consent of the owner, distributes to the
public for commercial purposes, by way of rental, lease, hire, loan or similar
arrangement, copies of a work in which copyright subsists, commits an offence
under this Act and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N1,000 for every
copy dealt with or imprisonment for a term of at least three years or both.
(5) The court before which any proceeding is taken for an offence
under subsections (1), (2) and (4), may order infringing copies of the works,
plates, master tapes, machines, equipment and contrivances in the possession
of the alleged offender, to be destroyed or surrendered to the owner of the
copyright or dealt with as the court may deem fit, whether the alleged offender
is convicted or not.
(6) Where an article is seized by a law enforcement officer in connection
with a suspected offence under this Act, a court may on the application of a
Copyright Officer or owner of the copyright in the article, order that the article

===== [PAGE 33 of source scan] =====

be destroyed or delivered up to the owner of the copyright or otherwise dealt
with as the court may deem fit, notwithstanding that no person has been
charged with the suspected offence.
(7) A person who without the consent of the owner of a work in which
copyright subsists, communicates to the public or makes the work available to
the public by wire or wireless means in such a way that members of the public
are able to access the work from a place and at a time individually chosen by
them for commercial purposes, commits an offence under this Act and is
liable on conviction to a fine of at least N1,000,000 or imprisonment for a term
of at least five years or both.
(8) A person who without the consent of the owner of a copyright
does any of the acts specified under section 13(1)(a)-(e) of this Act, in
respect of a broadcast, commits an offence under this Act and is liable on
conviction to a fine of at least N1,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of at
least five years or both.
(9) The Commission shall have power to compound any offence under
this Act by accepting such sums of money as it deems fit in the circumstance
but not exceeding double of the minimum fine to which the offender would
have been liable if he had been convicted of the offence.
45. Any person who aids or procures another person to commit an
offence under this Act is guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to the same punishment as prescribed under this Act for the commission of
the main offence.
46.—(1) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a body
corporate, the body corporate and its principal officers are deemed to have
committed the offence and liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly, provided that nothing contained in this subsection shall render
any person liable to any punishment, if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of the offence.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1), where an
offence under this Act has been committed by a body corporate and it is
proved that the offence was committed with the consent or connivance of any
director, manager, secretary or other officer of the body corporate such director,
manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to have committed
that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.
Aiding and
procuring
copyright
offence.
Offence by
bodies
corporate.

===== [PAGE 34 of source scan] =====

(3) For the purposes of this section —
(a) “body corporate” includes a firm or other association of
persons ; and
(b) “director” in relation to a firm includes a partner in the firm.
(4) Where a body corporate is convicted of an offence under this Act,
the court may order that its assets and properties be forfeited unless the body
corporate proves to the satisfaction of the court that such assets were not
proceeds of the offence for which the body corporate was convicted.
47. Notwithstanding the provisions of any law to the contrary, it shall be
permissible for both criminal and civil actions to be taken simultaneously in
respect of the same infringement under this Act.
PART VI — ANTI-PIRACY AND OTHER MEASURES
48.—(1) A person carrying on the business of production or reproduction
of works including publishers, printers, producers, manufacturers and
aggregators of works in which copyright subsists shall keep a record of all
works dealt with in the course of their business, showing the following —
(a) name of the author ;
(b) title of the work ;
(c) date of use or production ;
(d) quantity of the work used or produced ; and
(e) any other information as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(2) Any person who —
(a) fails to keep the record required under this section,
(b) makes or causes to be made a false entry in a record, or
(c) produces, tenders or causes to be produced or tendered as evidence
any entry knowing the same to be false,
commits an offence under this section and is liable on conviction to a fine of at
least N100,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least one year or both.
(3) A copyright owner or any person having an interest in a work shall,
on written demand, be furnished with information relating to the work as
contained in the record kept under this section.
49.—(1) The Commission shall have powers, with the consent of the
Minister, to prescribe any design, label, mark, impression or any other antipiracy device for use on, in, or in connection with any work in which copyright
subsists.
Duty to
keep
records.
Simultaneous
actions.
Anti-piracy
measures.

===== [PAGE 35 of source scan] =====

(2) Any person who —
(a) sells, rents, hires, or
(b) offers for sale, rental or hire, any work in contravention of the
prescription made under subsection (1),
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N500,000 or
imprisonment for a term of at least three years or both.
(3) Any person who without the permission of the Commission —
(a) imports into Nigeria, or
(b) has in his possession, any machine, instrument or other contrivance
intended to be used for the production of anti-piracy device,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N1,000,000
or imprisonment for a term of at least five years, or both.
(4) Any person who without the permission of the Commission —
(a) reproduces, or
(b) counterfeits, any anti-piracy device prescribed under this section,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N500,000 or
imprisonment for a term of at least three years or both.
(5) Any person who without the permission of the Commission, is in
possession of any anti-piracy device prescribed under this section, unless he
proves to the satisfaction of the court that he did not know and had no reason
to believe that such device was a prescribed anti-piracy device, commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N100,000 or imprisonment
for a term of at least one year or both.
(6) The Commission shall have power, with the consent of the Minister,
to make regulations specifying the conditions necessary to give effect to the
purpose of this section.
50.—(1) Subject to the provisions of Part II of this Act, no person shall
knowingly circumvent a technological protection measure that effectively
protects access to a work protected under this Act.
(2) No person shall manufacture, import, sell, offer for sale, provide, or
otherwise traffic in any technology, product, service, device, or part, that —
(a) is primarily designed or produced for the purpose of circumventing
protection afforded by a technological protection measure that effectively
protects a work under this Act ;
(b) has only limited commercially significant purpose or use other than
to circumvent protection afforded by a technological measure that protects
a work under this Act ; and
Circumvention
of
technological
protection
measures.

===== [PAGE 36 of source scan] =====

(c) is sold or distributed for use in circumventing a technological protection
measure that effectively protects a work under this Act.
(3) In this section —
(a) “technological protection measure” means a technology, device,
product or component incorporated into the work which is designed to
effectively prevent or inhibit the infringement of any copyright or related
right ;
(b) “circumvent a technological protection measure” as used means
avoiding, bypassing, removing, deactivating, decrypting or otherwise impairing
a technological protection measure ; and
(c) a technological protection measure effectively protects a work under
this Act, if the measure in the ordinary course of its operation, controls
access to a work protected under this Act or prevents or restrict acts in
respect of the works, which are not authorised by the authors concerned or
permitted by law, provided that this section does not extend to measures,
which in the normal cause of operation, only controls access to a work for
non-infringing purposes.
(4) A non-profit library, archive or educational institution, which gains
access to a commercially exploited copyright work in order to make a good
faith determination only, of whether to acquire a copy of the work for the
purpose of engaging in conduct permitted under this Act shall not be in violation
of the provisions of this section, provided that a copy of a work to which
access has been gained under this subsection may not be —
(a) retained longer than necessary to make the good faith
determination ; and
(b) used for any other purpose.
(5) The exemption under subsection (4) shall only apply with respect to
a work, when an identical copy of that work is not available in another form.
(6) This section does not prohibit any lawfully authorised investigation,
protection, information security, intelligence activity, or computer security
measures.
(7) The provisions of this section shall not affect the exercise of any
exception provided in this Act as it relates to the work in respect of which the
technological protection measure is applied.
(8) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a person who has
lawfully obtained the right to use a copy of a computer programme, may —
(a) circumvent a technological measure that effectively controls access
to a particular portion of that programme for the sole purpose of identifying
and analysing those elements of the programme ;

===== [PAGE 37 of source scan] =====

(b) be necessary to achieve interoperability of an independently created
computer programme with other programmes ; or
(c) have not previously been readily available to the person engaging in
the circumvention, to the extent that any acts of identification and analysis
do not constitute infringement under this Act.
(9) For the purpose of subsection (9), the term “interoperability” means
the ability of computer programmes to exchange information and mutually use
the information, which has been exchanged.
51.—(1) A person shall not knowingly and with the intent to induce,
enable, facilitate, or conceal infringement, provide rights management
information that is false.
(2) A person shall not, without the authority of the copyright owner —
(a) knowingly remove or alter any rights management information ; or
(b) sell, offer for sale, distribute, import for distribution, broadcast or
communicate to the public, works or copies of works, knowing or having
reasonable grounds to know that rights management information has been
removed or altered without authority, and that it will induce, enable, facilitate,
or conceal an infringement of any right under this Act.
(3) In this section, “rights management information” means information
which identifies a work or other subject matter, the author, owner or any right
in it including information about the terms and conditions of its use and any
number or code that represents such information, attached to, or appearing in
connection with the communication to the public of a work or subject matter.
52.—(1) A person whose right is violated under sections 50 or 51 of this
Act may institute an action before a court of competent jurisdiction to seek
redress for damages, accounts or injunction as are available to a plaintiff in
any similar proceedings in respect of infringement of other proprietary rights.
(2) A court before which an action is brought under this section, may
order that any device or product that is in the custody or control of the alleged
violator, which the court has reasonable cause to believe was involved in the
violation be impounded on such terms as it deems necessary.
(3) Any person who, in the course of business, makes or imports into
Nigeria a technology or device for the circumvention of a technological
protection measure, knowing that it is likely to be so used, commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N1,000,000 or to imprisonment
for a term of at least five years or both
Falsification,
alteration or
removal of
rights
management
information.
Actions for
circumvention
of
technological
protection
measures and
rights
management
information.

===== [PAGE 38 of source scan] =====

(4) Any person who, in the course of business, sells, distributes, lets for
hire, offers or exposes for sale or hire, a technology or device for the
circumvention of a technological protection measure, knowing that it is likely
to be so used, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at
least N500,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least three years or both.
(5) Any person who, in the course of business, provides a service to
another knowing that the service is to enable or assist that other person to
circumvent a technological protection measure, commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine of at least N200,000 or imprisonment for a term
of at least one year or both.
(6) Any person who, with the intention of infringing copyright in the
work concerned —
(a) removes, erases or alters any rights management information which
is attached to or incorporated in or appears with a work ; or
(b) sells or lets for hire or offers or exposes for sale or hire any work
from which rights management information has been removed, erased or altered,
shall be guilty of an offence and liable to a fine of not less than N200,000 or to
imprisonment for a term of not less than one year or both.
(7) It shall be a defence, in a prosecution for an offence under subsection
(6), for the accused person to prove that the removal, erasure or alteration of
the rights management information concerned was reasonably incidental to
any use of or dealing with the work concerned which did not amount to an
infringement of any copyright in the work.
53.—(1) The owner of copyright in a work may give notice in writing to
the Director-General, requesting the Commission to notify the Nigerian
Customs Service, during the period specified in the notice, to treat as prohibited
goods any work in respect of which the right has been infringed.
(2) The Director-General shall, upon receipt of a notice under subsection
(1) or upon reasonable suspicion that an infringing copyright work is being
imported, notify the Comptroller-General of Customs or any other officer in
charge of the relevant border, furnishing him with information that may be
relevant for the purpose of identifying and intercepting the infringing work
which is the subject matter of the notice or suspicion.
(3) On receipt of the notice from the Director-General under this section,
the Comptroller-General of Customs or such other officer, shall intercept and
impound the infringing works and shall permit the Director-General or any
person acting on his behalf to inspect the impounded works and take custody
of same pending the commencement of any proceedings in accordance with
the provisions of this Act, provided that the inspection shall not be invalidated
by the absence of the importer.
Restriction
on
importation.

===== [PAGE 39 of source scan] =====

(4) Any work or material impounded under this section shall not be
kept for a period exceeding 10 working days, which may be extended by
another 10 working days, within which the right owner or the Commission
shall decide whether to initiate any proceedings in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.
(5) Where an infringing work is intercepted or impounded under this
section, the Comptroller-General or any other officer in charge of the relevant
border shall notify the importer and the right holder or their authorised
representatives, stating the reasons for the action taken.
(6) The period specified in the notice under subsection (1) shall not
exceed five years nor extend beyond the end of the period for which the
copyright subsists.
(7) Where a notice has been given under subsection (1), the importation
into Nigeria or exportation from Nigeria during the period specified in the
notice, except for private and domestic use, of any works to which the notice
relates shall be prohibited.
(8) The Director-General or any person acting on his behalf may enter
any vehicle, aircraft, ship, vessel, dock, or premises to examine the works
which is the subject of the notice under subsection (1) and take further action
in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(9) Any person giving notice under subsection (1) shall be required to
undertake to any person, agency or official likely to suffer any damage or loss
that may result from any action taken in respect of the notice, where it is
found that the notice ought not to have been given.
(10) Without prejudice to subsections (1) and (2), the ComptrollerGeneral of Customs, or any other officer in charge of a border may, in respect
of any imported goods, which he reasonably believes to be infringing copyright,
suspend the release of such goods and promptly notify the importer and the
right owner of the work.
(11) This section shall apply to works made within or outside Nigeria,
which if made or manufactured in Nigeria, would be an infringement under
this Act.
(12) The Commission may prescribe the forms, fees and any other
requirements for giving notice under this section.

===== [PAGE 40 of source scan] =====

PART VII — PROVISIONS RELATING TO ONLINE CONTENT
54.—(1) The owner of copyright in a work, in respect of which copyright
has been infringed, may issue notice of the infringement to the relevant service
provider requesting the service provider to take down or disable access to any
infringing content or link to the content, hosted on its system or network.
(2) A notification under subsection (1), shall be in writing and may be
transmitted electronically, or by any other means, to the service provider or
his designated agent and shall include —
(a) a physical or electronic signature of a person authorised to act on
behalf of the owner of the right allegedly infringed ;
(b) identification of each work claimed to have been infringed ;
(c) identification of the infringing material or the subject of infringing
activity that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled, including
information sufficient to enable the service provider to locate the material ;
(d) information sufficient to enable the service provider to contact the
complaining party, such as an electronic mail address, telephone number, or
a location address at which the complaining party may be contacted ;
(e) a declaration on oath that the complainant believes that the use of
the material in the manner complained of is not authorised by the owner of
copyright, his agent or the law ; and
(f ) a statement that the information in the notification is accurate and
that the complainant is authorised to act on behalf of the owner of the right
allegedly infringed.
55.—(1) A service provider, upon receiving notice of infringement under
section 54 of this Act shall promptly notify the subscriber responsible for the
content for which the notice relates informing him of the content of the notice,
and shall expeditiously take down or disable access to the infringing content
or links to such content hosted on its system or network and, thereafter, notify
the owner of the copyright accordingly.
(2) The service provider may resume access to or restore the content
or link that has been removed, if he —
(a) receives a written counter notice from the subscriber which he has
forwarded to the owner of copyright immediately on receipt ; and
(b) did not receive, within seven days after forwarding the counter
notice, a response from the owner of copyright, indicating that no authorisation
has been granted for the subscriber to make the content available.
(3) A service provider shall take effective steps, in accordance with
high industry standards, to prevent any content taken down or removed under
the provisions of this Act from being reloaded onto its system or network and
Notice to
take down.
Take down
of infringing
content.

===== [PAGE 41 of source scan] =====

if despite taking the steps, the removed content is reloaded onto its system or
network, on becoming aware of such content being reloaded, shall promptly
remove or disable access to the content without further notice to the subscriber.
(4) A person dissatisfied with a determination or action by the service
provider or owner of copyright under this section may refer the matter to the
Commission for determination.
(5) A service provider shall not be liable to any person for any action
taken under this section in good faith.
(6) A service provider who fails to comply with the provisions of
subsections (1) and (2), shall be liable for such failure as a breach of statutory
duty and for infringement of the content which is the subject matter of the
notice under section 54 to the same extent as the person responsible for placing
the content on the system or network.
56.—(1) A service provider, upon receiving repeated notifications of
infringements for a particular account, shall —
(a) promptly send a warning to the subscriber that has been identified,
informing him that another notification will lead to suspension of the account
and requiring the subscriber to confirm the receipt of the warning ; and
(b) after a second notification relating to the same account, where no
challenge is pending under subsection (2), shall suspend the account for a
period of not less than one month.
(2) A subscriber who receives a warning notice may challenge the
notice on the grounds of mistake or misidentification —
(a) within 10 days from the date of the warning, send a signed counternotice to the service provider, furnishing his full contact details and the
factual basis of his belief that his account has been misidentified or that the
use of the content was not infringing ; or
(b) If the basis for the challenge under paragraph (a) cannot be resolved
within 10 days of the receipt of the counter-notice, the matter shall be
referred to the Commission to determine the validity of the challenge.
(3) A service provider acting in good faith in suspending the account of
a subscriber, relying on the information contained in a notification referred to
in subsection (2), shall not be liable to any person for any claim based on the
suspension.
57. A person who knowingly misrepresents under this section, that —
(a) material or activity is infringing, or
(b) material or activity was removed or disabled by mistake or
misidentification,
Procedure
for
suspension
of accounts
of repeat
infringers.
Misrepresentation.

===== [PAGE 42 of source scan] =====

is liable in damages for injuries suffered by the person as a result of the
service provider relying on such misrepresentation.
58. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, a service provider shall
not be liable for monetary relief for infringement of copyright or other subject
matter by reason of the storage at the direction of a user of material that
resides on a system or network controlled or operated by or for the service
provider, if the service provider —
(a) does not have actual knowledge that the material or an activity
using the material on the system or network is infringing or in the absence
of such actual knowledge, is not aware of facts or circumstances from
which infringing activity is apparent or upon obtaining such knowledge
or awareness, acts expeditiously to remove, or disable access to, the
material ;
(b) does not receive a financial benefit directly or indirectly attributable
to the infringing activity, where the service provider has the right and ability
to control such activity ;
(c) on notification of infringement as provided for in section 54 of this Act,
responds expeditiously to remove or disable access to the material that is
claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity ; and
(d) complies with the procedure for suspension of accounts of repeat
infringers as provided in section 54 of this Act.
59. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, a service provider shall
not be liable for monetary relief for infringement of copyright or other subject
matter by reason of the provider referring or linking users to an online location
containing infringing material or infringing activity, by using information location
tools, including a directory, index, reference, pointer, or hypertext link, if the
service provider —
(a) does not have actual knowledge that the material or activity is
infringing, or in the absence of such actual knowledge, is not aware of facts
or circumstances from which infringing activity is apparent or upon obtaining
such knowledge or awareness, acts expeditiously to remove or disable access
to the material ;
(b) does not receive, financial benefit directly attributable to the infringing
activity, where the service provider has the right and ability to control such
activity ; and
(c) on notification of infringement under section 54 of this Act, responds
expeditiously to remove or disable access to, the material that is claimed to
be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity.
Information
domiciled in
systems or
networks at
direction of
users.
Information
location
tools.

===== [PAGE 43 of source scan] =====

60.—(1) An owner of copyright or other subject matter under this Act
or his agent may apply to the court for an order to a service provider to
identify an alleged infringer in accordance with this section.
(2) The application referred to in subsection (1) shall be accompanied
with a —
(a) copy of the notification described in section 54 of this Act ; and
(b) sworn declaration to the effect that the purpose for which the order
is sought is to obtain the identity of an alleged infringer and that such
information will only be used for the purpose of protecting rights under this
Act.
(3) The court may issue an order to the service provider to expeditiously
disclose to the owner of copyright or other subject matter under this Act or a
person authorised by the owner, information sufficient to identify the alleged
infringer of the material described in the notification to the extent that the
information is available to the service provider.
61. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, the Commission
may, directly or with the assistance of any other person block or disable access
to any content, link or website hosted on a system or network, which it
reasonably believes to infringe copyright under this Act.
62.—(1) The limitations to liability under this Part shall apply only to —
(a) the neutral, automatic and passive activities of a service provider ;
and
(b) service providers who —
(i) do not take an active role, intervene or participate in the making
available of content, and
(ii) designate an agent or an address, on their website, to receive
notices under this Part.
(2) The provisions of this Part shall be without prejudice to the powers
of the court or any administrative authority to require or direct the service
provider to terminate or prevent an infringement.
PART VIII — PERFORMER’S RIGHTS
63.—(1) A performer shall have the exclusive right to control, in relation
to his performance, the acts of —
(a) fixation of his unfixed performance ;
(b) reproduction of a fixation of his performance, in any manner or
form, if the —
Identification
of infringer.
Blocking
access to
online
content.
Rights of
performers.
Application
of this Part.

===== [PAGE 44 of source scan] =====

(i) original fixation, other than a fixation excluded by section 68 from
the necessity for obtaining the consent of the performer, was itself made
without his consent ;
(ii) reproduction is made for purposes other than those in respect of
which such performer gave his consent to the making of the original
fixation or of a reproduction ; or
(iii) original fixation was made in accordance with the provisions of
section 68 and the reproduction is made for purposes not covered by
those provisions ;
(c) distribution to the public by sale or other transfer of ownership, of a
fixation of his performance, or copies, that have not been subject to a
distribution authorised by the performer ;
(d) broadcasting or communicating to the public an unfixed performance
of such performer, unless the performance used in the broadcast or
communication to the public is itself a broadcast performance ;
(e) renting or lending to the public or public lending of a fixation or
copies of the fixation of his performance irrespective of the ownership of
the copy rented or lent ; and
(f ) making available to the public of his fixed performance by wire or
wireless means, in a way that members of the public may access them
from a place or at a time individually chosen by them.
(2) In this Part, “performance” includes a —
(a) dramatic performance, which includes dance and mime;
(b) musical performance ; and
(c) reading or recitation of literary act or any similar presentation which
is a live performance given by one or more individuals.
(3) In this Part, “performer” includes actors, singers, musicians, dancers,
and other persons, who act, sing, deliver, declaim, play in, interpret, or otherwise
perform literary or artistic works or expressions of folklore irrespective of
whether the work was fixed or only fixed during performance.
64. —(1) The rights granted to a performer under this Act shall apply in
respect of any performance if —
(a) on the date of the performance, at least one of the performers is a
citizen of, or habitually resident in, Nigeria, or
(b) the performance takes place or is first fixed in Nigeria or in a country
which is a party to an obligation in a treaty or other international agreement
to which Nigeria is party.
Protected
performance.

===== [PAGE 45 of source scan] =====

(2) Where the question arises as to whether a country is a party to an
obligation in a treaty or other international agreement to which Nigeria is also
a party, a certification from the Commission to that effect shall be conclusive
proof of that fact.
65. In the absence of express agreement to the contrary, a performer’s
consent to the broadcasting of his performance shall be deemed to include his
consent to an authorised rebroadcasting of his performance, the fixation of his
performance for broadcasting purposes and the reproduction for broadcasting
purposes of such fixation.
66.—(1) A performer shall have the right to —
(a) be identified as the performer in connection with any use of his
performance or the fixation ; and
(b) object, and prevent any distortion, mutilation or other modification of
his performance or the fixation of the performance, and any other derogatory
action in relation where such action will be or is prejudicial to his honour or
reputation.
(2) The rights referred to in subsection (1), shall not be transmissible
during the life of the performer, but upon his death, shall be transmissible by
testamentary disposition or by operation of law.
(3) The rights conferred by this section shall subsist for the duration of
the performer’s right.
67. Where several performers as a group take part in the same
performance, it shall suffice, if the consent required under section 65 of this
Act, is given by any person in charge of the group and any payment for the
use of the performance may, unless otherwise stipulated, be made to such
person and, subject to any contract between them, be divided equally among
all the performers.
68.—(1) Where a performer consents to the inclusion of his performance
in a visual or audio-visual fixation, section 65 of this Act shall cease to apply in
respect of the performance.
(2) The provisions of Part II of this Act, shall apply, with necessary
modifications, in respect of performances.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2), a performance, a fixation of a
performance or a reproduction of such a fixation may be used without the
consent required under section 63 of this Act, if it is for the purpose of —
(a) demonstration in good faith of radio or television receivers or recording
or playback equipment to clients by a dealer in those receivers or that
equipment on his premises ;
Presumption
of consent.
Moral rights
of
performers.
Collective
performances.
Exceptions
to
performer’s
rights.

===== [PAGE 46 of source scan] =====

(b) reproduction of short extracts from an object of performer’s rights
in reports on current events, to the extent justified by that purpose ;
(c) research or private study of an object of performer’s rights kept in
publicly accessible libraries, educational establishments, museums or
archives, on the premises of the said institutions ;
(d) reproduction for the benefit of people with a disability, which is
directly related to the disability and of a non-commercial nature, to the
extent required by the disability ; and
(e) making of an ephemeral recording of an object of performer’s rights
by broadcasting organisations by means of their own facilities and for their
own broadcasts :
Provided that –
(i) the recordings may be preserved for a period not more than 30
days and must be erased after their use for broadcasting, and
(ii) the recordings of an exceptional documentary character may be
transferred to designated archives for preservation.
69.—(1) The provisions of section 30 of this Act shall apply to
performer’s rights subject to any modifications as may be necessary.
(2) A performer who has authorised the fixation of his performance in
an audio-visual work shall, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary,
be deemed to have granted to the person by whom the arrangements for such
fixation is made, the exclusive rights under section 63 (1) of this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the provision of subsection (2), a performer shall
be entitled to share in any payment received by the person who arranges for
the fixation of the audiovisual work in respect of the broadcast or
communication to the public of the fixed performance.
70. The right conferred by section 63 of this Act in relation to a
performance shall subsist for a period of 50 years commencing from the end
of the year when the performance was first fixed.
71. Performer’s right is infringed by a person who, without the
performer’s consent or authorisation —
(a) does or causes any person to do any of the acts provided in section
63 of this Act ;
(b) broadcasts a substantial part of the live performance by means of a
recording, which the person knows or has reason to believe was made
without the performer’s consent ;
(c) imports for reasons other than his private or domestic use a recording
of a performer’s work which is an infringing recording ; or
Transfer of
performer’s
rights in
audio-visual
fixations.
Duration of
performer’s
right.
Infringement
of
performer’s
right.

===== [PAGE 47 of source scan] =====

(d) in the course of trade or business, sells or lets for hire, offers,
distributes or displays for sale or hire, a recording of a performer’s work
which is an infringing recording.
72.—(1) An infringement of a right protected under sections 63 and 66
of this Act, shall be actionable as a breach of statutory duty and the person
having the right shall be entitled to damages, injunction, and account of profits
or conversion.
(2) Where a person, in the course of trade or business, has in his
possession, custody or control, an unauthorised recording of a performance,
the person having the performer’s right or recording right in relation to the
performance, shall be entitled to an order of the court that the recording be
forfeited and delivered up to him.
73.—(1) A person who, without the consent or authorisation of the
performer, does any of the acts set out in section 71, unless he proves to the
satisfaction of the court that he did not know that his conduct was an
infringement of the performer’s right, commits an offence and is liable on
conviction in the case of —
(a) an individual, to a fine of at least N100,000 or imprisonment for a
term of at least one year or both ; and
(b) a body corporate, to a fine of at least N2,000,000.
(2) A court before which an offence under this section is tried may
order that the recording or any other part be delivered to the person entitled to
the performer’s right.
PART IX — EXPRESSIONS OF FOLKLORE
74.—(1) Expressions of folklore are protected against —
(a) reproduction ;
(b) communication to the public by performance, broadcasting, distribution
by cable or other means ; and
(c) adaptations, translations and other transformations, when such
expressions are made either for commercial purpose or outside their
traditional or customary context.
(2) The right conferred by subsection (1) shall not include the right to
control —
(a) the doing of any of the acts by way of fair dealing for private and
domestic use, subject to the condition that if, the use is public, it shall be
accompanied by an acknowledgment of the title of the work and its source ;
(b) the utilisation for purposes of education ;
Action for
infringement
of
performer’s
right.
Criminal
liability in
respect of
infringement
of
performer’s
right.
Protection of
expressions
of folklore.

===== [PAGE 48 of source scan] =====

(c) utilisation by way of illustration in an original work of an author ;
(d) the borrowing of expressions of folklore for creating an original
work of an author; provided that the extent of such utilisation is compatible
with fair practice ; or
(e) the incidental utilisation of expressions of folklore.
(3) In all printed publications or any communication to the public of any
identifiable expression of folklore, its source shall be indicated in an appropriate
manner, by stating the community or place from where the expression utilised
has been derived.
(4) The right to authorise acts referred to in subsection (1) vests in the
Commission.
(5) For the purpose of this section, “folklore” means a group-oriented
and tradition-based creation of groups or individuals reflecting the expectation
of the community as an adequate expression of its cultural and social identity,
its standards and values as transmitted orally, by imitation or by other means
including —
(a) folklore, folk poetry, and folk riddles ;
(b) folk songs and instrumental folk music ;
(c) folk dances and folk plays ; and
(d) productions of folk arts in particular, drawings, paintings, carvings,
sculptures, pottery, terracotta, mosaic, woodwork, metal ware, jewellery,
handicrafts, costumes, and indigenous textiles.
75. Any person who, without the consent of the Commission, uses an
expression of folklore in a manner not permitted by section 73 of this Act, is in
breach of statutory duty and is liable to the Commission in damages, injunctions
and any other remedies as the court may deem fit to award in the circumstance.
76.—(1) Any person who intentionally or for commercial purpose –—
(a) does any of the acts set out in section 73 of this Act without the
consent or authorisation of the Commission, or
(b) misrepresents the source of an expression of folklore, or
(c) distorts an expression of folklore in a manner prejudicial to the honour,
dignity or cultural interests of the community in which it originates,
commits an offence under this Act.
(2) A person convicted of an offence under subsection (1), commits an
offence is liable on conviction in the case of —
(a) an individual, to a fine of at least N100,000 or imprisonment for a
term of at least one year or both ; and
(b) a body corporate, to a fine of at least N2,000,000.
Infringement
of
expressions
of folklore.
Criminal
liability in
respect of
infringement
of
expressions
of folklore.

===== [PAGE 49 of source scan] =====

(3) A court before which an offence under this section is tried, may
order that the infringing or offending article be delivered to the Commission.
PART X—ESTABLISHMENT OF NIGERIAN COPYRIGHT COMMISSION
AND COPYRIGHT ADMINISTRATION
77.—(1) There is established the Nigerian Copyright Commission (in
this Act referred to as “the Commission”).
(2) The Commission —
(a) shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession ;
(b) shall have a common seal ;
(c) may acquire, hold or dispose any interest in property ; and
(d) may sue and be sued in its corporate name.
78.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commission shall —
(a) be responsible for all matters relating to copyright, including
administration, regulation and enforcement in Nigeria ;
(b) monitor and advise Government on Nigeria’s position in relation to
bilateral and multilateral agreements between Nigeria and any other country ;
(c) investigate and redress cases of infringement of copyright and settle
disputes of copyright, where those disputes have not been specifically
reserved for settlement under this Act ;
(d) enlighten and inform the public on matters relating to copyright ;
(e) create and maintain a register and database relating to copyright
works ;
(f ) provide access to documents and information relating to any copyright
kept or maintained by the Commission ;
(g) be responsible for such other matters as relate to copyright in
Nigeria ; and
(h) exercise any other functions and duties as may be necessary for the
attainment of the object of this Act.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commission shall have
powers to —
(a) prosecute, conduct or defend before a court any charge, information,
complaint or other proceedings arising under this Act ;
(b) levy such charges or fees as may be reasonable for services and
facilities provided by the Commission ;
(c) regulate and implement measures to promote protection of copyright ;
(d) regulate the conduct of collective management of rights ; and
(e) exercise such other powers as are incidental to any of its objects
under this Act.
Establishment
of the
Nigerian
Copyright
Commission.
Functions
and powers
of the
Commission.

===== [PAGE 50 of source scan] =====

(3) In exercising its powers of enforcement and compliance, the
Commission shall have power to —
(a) demand for evidence of compliance from persons, public or private
institutions and organisations ;
(b) caution a non-compliant person or entity in writing ;
(c) sanction a non-compliant person or entity by the imposition of
administrative fines ;
(d) institute criminal-proceedings against a non-compliant person or
entity ;
(e) institute civil actions against the defaulting person or entity ; and
(f ) obtain a court warrant or order to seize or detain any book, record,
document or other information storage system or database which use does
not conform with the provisions of the Act or relevant regulations made
under this Act.
79.—(1) The Commission shall have a Governing Board (in this Act
referred to as “the Board”) which shall consist of the following members —
(a) a Chairman to be a person knowledgeable in copyright matters, to
be appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Minister ;
(b) the Director-General of the Commission ;
(c) one representative of the Federal Ministry responsible for Justice ;
(d) one representative of the Federal Ministry responsible for Culture;
(e) one representative of the Nigeria Police Force, not below the rank
of a Commissioner of Police ;
(f ) one representative of the Nigeria Customs Service, not below the
rank of a Comptroller of Customs ; and
(g) six other persons to be appointed by the Minister who shall represent
as far as possible the authors in the following areas –
(i) literary works,
(ii) artistic works,
(iii) musical works,
(iv) audiovisual works,
(v) sound recordings, and
(vi) broadcasts.
(2) The representatives of the Ministries shall be officers not below the
rank of a Director.
(3) The supplementary provisions contained in the Schedule to this Act,
shall have effect with respect to the proceedings of the Board and other
matters mentioned in it.
Establishment
and
membership
of the
Governing
Board.
Schedule.

===== [PAGE 51 of source scan] =====

80.—(1) The Chairman and other members of the Board who are not
ex-officio members shall hold office —
(a) for a term of four years in the first instance and may be re-appointed
for a further term of four years and no more ; and
(b) on such terms and conditions as may be specified in their letters of
appointment.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 78 of this Act, the Chairman
or any member of the Board may at any time be removed from office by the
President for inability to discharge the functions of his office, whether arising
from infirmity of mind or body or any other cause or misconduct.
81. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 79 of this Act, a member
of the Board shall cease to hold office as a member, where —
(a) he resigns his appointment as a member of the Board by notice
under his hand addressed to the President ;
(b) he becomes of unsound mind ;
(c) he becomes bankrupt ;
(d) he is convicted of a felony or any other offence involving dishonesty
or corruption ;
(e) he becomes incapable of carrying on the functions of his office either
arising from an infirmity of mind or body ;
(f ) the President is satisfied that it is not in the interest of the Commission
or in the interest of the public for the person to continue in office ;
(g) he has been found guilty under the Code of Conduct or serious
misconduct in relation to his duties ; or
(h) in the case of a person who becomes a member by virtue of the
office he occupies, cease to hold such office.
82.—(1)Where it appears that the Chairman or any member of the
Board, other than an ex-officio member, should be removed from office on
the grounds of misconduct or inability to perform the functions of his office,
the Board shall make recommendation through the Minister to the President
for approval.
(2) Where the President, after making such inquiries as he considers
necessary and approves the recommendation made through the Minister by
the Board, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation shall, in writing
declare the position of such member vacant.
(3) Notwithstanding the provision of subsection (1), the President may
remove any member of the Board, where he is satisfied that it is in the interest
of the Commission and the public to do so.
Tenure of
office.
Cessation of
membership.
Removal of
the Chairman
or any
member of
the Board of
the
Commission.

===== [PAGE 52 of source scan] =====

83.—(1) There shall be for the Commission, a Director-General who
shall be appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Minister.
(2) The Director-General shall be a person with proven knowledge of
copyright with at least 15 years’ cognate experience in copyright practice and
administration.
(3) The Director-General shall be responsible for the day-to-day
administration of the Commission.
84. The Director-General, Chairman or any member of the Board may
be removed from office by the President on grounds of misconduct or inability
to perform the functions of his office or where the President is satisfied that it
is in the interest of the Commission and the public to do so.
85. The Commission shall have power —
(a) to appoint such other staff as it may determine ;
(b) to pay its staff such remuneration and allowances as it may
determine ; and
(c) as regards any staff in whose case it decides to do so, pay to such
staff, pensions and gratuities as are payable to persons of equivalent grade
in the Public Service of the Federation.
86.—(1) The Commission may appoint Copyright Officers as may be
necessary for the effective enforcement of the provisions of this Act.
(2) A Copyright Officer shall, without a warrant have the power to —
(a) enter, inspect and examine at any reasonable time any building or
premises which he reasonably suspects is being used for any activity which
is an infringement of copyright under this Act ;
(b) arrest any person who he reasonably believes to have committed an
offence under this Act ;
(c) make such examination and inquiry as may be necessary to ascertain
whether the provisions of this Act are complied with ;
(d) demand the production of any record required to be kept under
section 48 of this Act and to inspect, examine or copy such record ;
(e) demand information and access any database relating to copyright ;
(f ) require any person who, he finds in any building or premises to give
such information as it is in his power to give in relation to any purpose
specified in this Act and seize, or take into custody any infringing copy,
contrivance, material, equipment used or suspected to be used in committing
an offence under this Act ;
Appointment
of the
DirectorGeneral and
other staff of
the
Commission.
Removal of
the DirectorGeneral,
Chairman
and other
members of
the Board.
Appointment
of other
staff of the
Commission.
Copyright
Officers.

===== [PAGE 53 of source scan] =====

(g) seal up premises and carry out any examination, test or analysis
within or outside the premises as may be required to give effect to any of
the provisions of this Act and may capture any image where such
examination, test or analysis is within the premises ; and
(h) exercise such other powers as are necessary for the effective
discharge of his duties or as the Commission may delegate.
(3) A person who —
(a) obstructs, hinders, prevents, or assaults a Copyright Officer in the
performance of any function or the exercise of any power under this section,
(b) does anything which impedes or is intended to impede the sealing up
of premises or removal of books or documents or any other article for the
purpose of investigation of any contravention of the provisions of this Act
or regulations made under this Act,
(c) does anything intended to prevent the procuring or giving of evidence
in connection with the prosecution for any breach of the provisions of this
Act, or
(d) prevents the arrest of any person by a Copyright Officer or rescues
any person so arrested,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not more than N100,000
or imprisonment for a term of at least one year or both.
(4) A Copyright Officer shall have the powers, rights and privileges of a
police officer as defined under the Police Act or any other relevant enactment
relating to investigation and prosecution of a criminal matter.
87.—(1) The Commission shall establish and maintain a Register of
Works (in this Act referred to as “the Register”).
(2) A person may apply in the prescribed manner to the Commission to
register a work that is eligible for copyright under this Act.
(3) Subject to subsection (2), the Commission may enter the particulars
of the work in the Register, provided that the registration of a work does not
confer copyright.
(4) The Register shall at first instance, be evidence of the work and the
particulars entered in the Register, and any extract from the Register, certified
by the Commission shall be admissible in evidence in all proceedings without
further proof or production of the original of the matter certified.
(5) The Commission shall have power to reproduce and store all or any
part of a registered work electronically or in any other format.
(6) The Commission may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for the purpose of this Part.
Act No. 2,
2020.
Registration
of works.

===== [PAGE 54 of source scan] =====

(7) Any person who knowingly makes or causes to be made, a false entry in
the Register, commits an offence under this section and is liable on conviction
to a fine of at least N100,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least one year
or both.
88.—(1) A Collective Management Organisation (in this Act referred
to as “CMO”) formed by rights owners may apply to the Commission for
approval to operate in respect of any one or more categories of works.
(2) The Commission may approve a CMO, if it is satisfied that —
(a) it is incorporated as a company limited by guarantee ;
(b) its objects are to negotiate, grant copyright licences, collect royalties
on behalf of copyright owners and distribute such royalties ;
(c) it represents a substantial number of owners of copyright in any
category of works protected by this Act ; and
(d) it complies with the terms and conditions prescribed by regulations
made by the Commission under this Act.
 (3) The Commission shall not approve another CMO in respect of any
category of copyright works, if it is satisfied that an existing approved CMO
adequately protects the interests of copyright owners in that categories of
works.
(4) A person or group of persons, however described, shall not perform
the duties of a CMO without the approval of the Commission as required
under this Act.
 (5) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (4),
commits an offence and is liable on conviction in the case of —
(a) an individual, to a fine of at least N1,000,000 or imprisonment for a
term of at least five years or both ; and
(b) a body corporate, to a fine of at least N5,000,000.
(6)The Commission shall have the power to —
(a) suspend or revoke the approval given under subsection (2) ;
(b) review and approve tariffs as may be determined by a CMO ; and
(c) make regulations specifying the conditions necessary for the effective
management of CMOs and to give effect to the purposes of this section.
(7) For the purposes of this section —
“Collective Management Organisation” means an organisation
representing copyright owners, which has as its principal objectives the
negotiating and granting of licences, collecting and distributing of royalties
in respect of copyright works ;
Collective
Management
Organisations.

===== [PAGE 55 of source scan] =====

“group of persons” includes a body corporate or entity ; and
“owners of copyright” includes owners of performer’s rights.
 (8) The Commission may, where it finds it expedient, assist in the
establishment of a CMO for any category of copyright works.
(9) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act or any other law, a CMO
may issue licences permitting the use of works of owners of copyright who
are not members of the CMO, provided that –
(a) such works are of the same category as works for which it is
approved to issue licences ;
(b) the owners of copyright in such works are not otherwise represented
by any other CMO ;
(c) there is not more than one CMO approved to operate in the particular
category of works concerned ;
 (d) the owners of copyright in such works have not by written notice to
the CMO, opted out of collective management of their rights ; and
(e) the CMO does not discriminate against such owners in terms of the
tariffs for the use of their works and the payment of royalties to such
owners.
89.—(1) There shall be paid a levy on any material used or capable of
being used to infringe copyright in a work.
 (2) The levy payable under subsection (1) and any exemptions from
such payment shall be as may be prescribed by the Minister by an order and
different levies may be imposed on different categories of material.
(3) The levy payable under this section shall, subject to approved
deductions, be paid into the Fund of the Commission and the Commission shall
have power to disburse the funds to approved CMOs or other representatives
of right owners, in accordance with the regulations made by the Commission.
(4) The Minister shall have power to exempt any class of materials from
the repayment of any levy.
(5) In this section, “material” includes any object, equipment, machine,
contrivances or any other device, including electronic or digital systems, used
or capable of being used to infringe copyright in a work.
90.—(1) The Commission may constitute a Dispute Resolution Panel
(in this Act referred to as “the Panel”) to resolve any dispute arising from —
(a)payment of royalties ;
(b)terms of a licence ; or
(c) any matter in respect of which a determination by the Commission is
required under this Act.
Levy on
copyright
material.
Dispute
Resolution
Panel.

===== [PAGE 56 of source scan] =====

(2) A Panel established under subsection (1), shall comprise of three
persons knowledgeable in copyright matters, one of whom shall be designated
as the Chairman.
(3) A person shall not be appointed as a member of the Panel if he has
any interest in any matter which is required to be determined by the Panel.
(4) Where a proceeding before a Panel under this section has commenced
and a member of the Panel is unable to continue as a member, the Panel shall
remain duly constituted for the purpose of that proceeding with the remaining
two members.
(5) The Commission shall with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations providing for the procedure and operations of the Panel.
(6) Any person dissatisfied with a decision of the Panel may apply to the
Court for a review of the decision.
PART XI —FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
91.—(1) The Commission shall establish and maintain a Fund which
shall be applied towards the promotion of the objectives specified in this Act.
(2) There shall be paid and credited to the Fund established under
subsection (1) —
(a) government statutory allocations and grants as may be provided by
the Government of the Federation or appropriated by the National Assembly
for payment into the Fund of the Commission ;
(b) such money as may be lent or granted to the Commission by the
Federal Government, State or Local Government ;
(c) all charges, dues, fees or amount recovered by the Commission and
dividends from investment ;
(d) deductions as may be approved under section 89 of this Act ;
(e) all money raised for the general purpose of the Commission with the
approval of the Board ; and
(f ) foreign aids and assistance from bilateral and multilateral agencies.
92. The Commission shall apply the Fund established under this Act to —
(a) perform its statutory functions under this Act and development
activities in the capital projects of the Commission ;
(b) pay approved allowances and expenses of members of the Board ;
(c) pay salaries, allowances and other benefits of officers of the
Commission ;
(d) maintain properties acquired or vested in the Commission ; and
(e) undertake any other activity in connection with the objects of
this Act.
Establishment
of Fund for
the
Commission.
Expenditure
of the
Commission

===== [PAGE 57 of source scan] =====

93.—(1) The Commission shall not later than 30 September of each
year, submit to the Board for approval its estimates of income and expenditure
for the next financial year.
(2) The Commission shall —
(a) keep proper records of all accounts of its income and expenditure ; and
(b) prepare statement of account in respect of each financial year.
(3) The Commission shall prepare and submit its accounts to auditors in
accordance with laid down guidelines and rules.
94.—The Commission shall submit its annual report to the Board, which
shall include —
(a) information on the activities of the Commission for the previous
year ; and
(b) a copy of the audited accounts of the Commission for the previous
year.
95.—(1) The Commission may, in accordance with the financial
regulations prescribed by government, borrow by way of loan or overdraft
from any source, any specified amount of money required by the Commission
for its obligations and functions under this Act.
(2) The Commission may, subject to the provisions of this Act and the
conditions of any trust created in respect of any property, invest any of its
funds in line with the financial regulations prescribed by government.
PART XII — MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
96.—(1) The Commission may accept gift of land, money or other
property upon such terms and conditions, if any, as may be specified by the
person or organisation making the gift.
(2) The Commission shall not accept any gift where the conditions
attached by the person or organisation making the gift are inconsistent with
the functions and objectives of the Commission.
(3) A gift donated to the Commission or project of the Commission shall
be made directly to the Commission and shall be utilised only for the purpose.
97.—(1) The Commission may with the consent of the Minister, make
regulations —
(a) specifying the conditions necessary for the operation of a business
involving the production, publication, public exhibition, distribution, sale, hiring,
rental, storage, warehousing or any other dealings with a work in which
copyright subsists ;
Annual
estimates,
accounts and
audit.
Annual
report.
Borrowing
and
investment
powers of
the
Commission.
Power to
accept gifts.
Regulations.

===== [PAGE 58 of source scan] =====

(b) prescribing any fees for any transactions, or fines for any act or
non-compliance arising from the provisions of this Act or regulations made
under this Act ; and
(c) for the effective implementation of the provisions of this Act.
(2) A contravention of any regulation order or any other instrument
made under the provisions of this Act, or non-compliance with any administrative
sanctions imposed under any directive or regulation issued by the Commission,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction, in the case of first offence, to
a fine of at least N100,000 and in the case of a repeat offence, to a fine of at
least N500,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least six months.
98.—(1) Service in the employment of the Commission shall be approved
service under the Pensions Reform Act and accordingly, employees of the
Commission shall, in respect of their services be entitled to pension and other
retirement benefits as are prescribed in that Act.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), nothing in this Act
shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on terms, which preclude
the grant of pension and gratuity in respect of that office.
(3) For the purpose of the application of the Pensions Reform Act, any
power exercisable under it by the President or authority other than the Federal
Government (not being the power to make regulations), shall be vested in and
exercisable by the Commission.
(4) Subject to subsection (2), the Pensions Reform Act, shall in its
application of subsection (3), have effect as if, the office were in the Public
Service of the Federation within the meaning of the Constitution of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria, 1999.
99. The Minister may give to the Commission, directives of a general
character relating to the policies and functions of the Commission and it shall
be the duty of the Commission to comply with such directives.
100.—(1) In any action or suit against the Commission, no execution or
attachment of process shall be issued against the Commission, unless prior to
such execution, at least three months’ notice of the intention to execute or
attach has been given to the Commission.
(2) Any sum of money, which by the judgment of any court, has been
awarded against the Commission shall, subject to any direction given by the
court, where notice of appeal against the judgment has been given, be paid
from the Fund of the Commission.
Application
of the
Pensions
Reform Act.
Act No.4,
2014.
Cap. C23,
LFN 2004.
Power of the
Minister to
give
directives.
Restriction
on execution
against
property of
the
Commission.

===== [PAGE 59 of source scan] =====

101. A member of the Board, Director-General or staff of the
Commission shall be indemnified out of the assets of the Commission against
any proceedings brought against him in his capacity as a member of the Board,
Director-General, officer or employee of the Commission, where the act
complained of is not beyond his powers.
102. A Board member, the Director-General or any other officer of the
Commission shall —
(a) treat as confidential any information which came to his knowledge
in the exercise of his power or is obtained by him in the performance of his
duties under this Act ; and
(b) not, for his personal gain, make use of any information which came
to his knowledge in the exercise of this power or is obtained by him in the
ordinary course of his duty as a member of the Board, Director-General or
officer of the Commission.
103. The Federal High Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction for the
trial of offences and civil actions arising from this Act.
104.—(1) Notwithstanding anything in any other enactment, no suit
against the Commission, a member of the Board or any staff of the Commission,
for an act done —
(a) in pursuance or discharge of his duties under this Act or any other
enactment or law ; or
(b) in respect of any alleged neglect or default in the operation of this
Act or any other enactment,shall lie or be instituted in any court unless the
suit is commenced within 12 months next after the act, neglect or default
complained of or where the damage or injury continues within 12 months
next after the damage or injury ceases.
(2) No suit shall be commenced against the Commission or any member
of staff of the Commission before the expiration of a period of three months
after written notice of intention to commence the suit is served upon the
Commission by the intending plaintiff or his agent.
(3) The notice referred to in subsection (2) shall clearly state the cause
of action, the particulars of the claim, the name and place of abode of the
intending plaintiff and the relief which he claims.
105. A notice, summons, or other document required or authorised to be
served on the Commission under the provisions of this Act or any other
enactment or law may be served by delivering same to the Director-General
of the Commission or by sending it by registered mail or courier addressed to
the Director-General at the head office of the Commission.
Indemnity.
Avoidance
of conflict
of interest.
Jurisdiction.
Limitation
on suit
against the
Commission.
Service of
documents.

===== [PAGE 60 of source scan] =====

106.—(1)The Copyright Act, Cap. C28, Laws of the Federation of
Nigeria, 2004 is repealed.
(2) Sections 491, 492 and 493 of the First Schedule to the Criminal Code
Act and sections 426 and 427 of the Penal Code are hereby repealed.
(3) Without prejudice to section 6 of the Interpretation Act, the repeal of
the enactment specified in subsection (1), shall not affect anything doneunder
the enactment.
107.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Director–General of
the Commission under the repealed Act is deemed to continue to serve his
tenure under this Act.
(2) Any person who immediately before the commencement of this Act
was a staff of the Nigerian Copyright Commission established under the
repealed Act shall continue in office and be deemed to have been appointed
under this Act for purposes of pension.
(3) Properties held immediately before the commencement date of this
Act on behalf of the Nigerian Copyright Commission by any person shall, by
virtue of this Act, be vested in the Commission established under this Act.
(4) The Commission established under this Act shall be subject to all the
obligations and liabilities to which the former Nigerian Copyright Commission
was subject immediately before the commencement of this Act and all other
persons shall have the same rights, powers and remedies against the
Commission established by this Act as they had against the Commission
immediately before the commencement of this Act.
(5) Any proceeding or cause of action pending or existing immediately
before the commencement of this Act by or against the Commission established
under the repealed Act in respect of any right, interest, obligation or liability of
the Commission may be continued or commenced, as the case may be, and
any determination of a court of law, tribunal or other commission or person
may be enforced by or against the Commission established by this Act to the
same extent that such proceeding, cause of action or determination might
have been continued, commenced or enforced by or against the Commission
as if this Act had not been made.
(6) This Act applies in relation to works made before the commencement
of this Act as it applies in relation to works made after the commencement of
this Act.
(7) Proceedings for infringement of Copyright Act, may be taken,
notwithstanding that the alleged infringement occurred before the
commencement of this Act.
Repeals and
savings
provisions.
Cap. I23,
LFN, 2004.
Transitional
provisions.
Cap. C28,
LFN, 2004.

===== [PAGE 61 of source scan] =====

 (8) Where an act done before the commencement of this Act was then
an infringement but is not an infringement under this Act, proceedings in respect
of the act may be taken as if this Act had not been made.
(9) Contracts for the licensing of any act in respect of copyright that
were effective immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall continue
in effect as if they related to the corresponding copyright under this Act.
(10) A notice given under section 44 of the repealed Act and not
withdrawn before the commencement of this Act shall continue in effect as if
it had been given under section 84 of this Act.
(11) Any subsidiary legislation which was in effect immediately before
the commencement of this Act shall remain in effect, subject to any necessary
modifications, as if it had been made under this Act, and may be added to,
amended, revoked or varied accordingly.
108.—(1) In this Act —
“adaptation” means the modification of a pre-existing work from one
type of work to another or altering a work within the same type to make it
suitable for different conditions of exploitation and may also involve altering
the composition of the work ;
“artistic work” includes, irrespective of artistic quality, any of the
following works or similar works —
 (a) paintings, drawings, etchings, lithographs, woodcuts, engravings
and prints ;
(b) maps, plans and diagrams ;
(c) works of sculpture ;
(d) photographs not comprised in an audiovisual work ;
(e) works of architecture in the form of building models ; and
(f ) works of artistic craftsmanship, including pictorial woven tissues
and articles of applied handicraft ;
“audiovisual work” means the aggregate of a series of related visual
images with or without sound, which is capable of being shown as a moving
picture by means of a mechanical, electronic or other device and irrespective
of the nature of the material on which the visual images and sounds are carried
and includes the sound track, but does not include a broadcast ;
“author” in the case of —
(a) audiovisual work means the person by whom the arrangements
for the making of the audiovisual work were made, unless the parties to
the making of the audiovisual work, provide otherwise by contract between
themselves ;
(b) collective work, means the person responsible for the selection
and arrangement of the collection ;
Interpretation.

===== [PAGE 62 of source scan] =====

(c) a photographic work, means the person who took the photograph;
(d) sound recording, means the person by whom the arrangements
for the making of the sound recording were made ; and
(e) a broadcast transmitted from within any country, means the person
by whom the arrangements for the making or the transmission from
within that country were undertaken ;
“broadcast” means the transmission by wireless means of sounds or
images or both, in such a manner as to cause such images or sounds to be
received by the public ;
“broadcasting organisation” means any authority established under
any law in Nigeria or elsewhere providing broadcasting services for public
reception ;
“building” includes any fixed structure or a part of a building or fixed
structure ;
“choreographic work” means a composition of movements for dancing
or any other patterned succession of gestures mostly created to
accompanying music ;
“collective work” means a collection of literary or artistic works, which
by reason of the selection and arrangement of their contents, constitute
intellectual creations and as such protected without prejudice to the copyright
in each of the works forming part of such collection ;
“communication to the public” means making a work or a performance
available to the public by wire or wireless means in such a way that members
of the public may access the work or performance from a place and at a
time individually chosen by them ;
“computer programme” means a set of statements or instructions,
whatever may be the mode or form of their expression, to be used directly
or indirectly in a computer in order to bring about a certain result ;
“copy” means a reproduction in any form including a digital copy ;
“copyright” means copyright under this Act ;
“court” means the Federal High Court ;
“exclusive licence” means a licence signed by or on behalf of a copyright
owner, authorising the licensee to the exclusion of all other persons (including
the person granting the licence), to exercise any right which would otherwise
be exercisable exclusively by the copyright owner ;
“Government” includes Federal, State and Local Government ;
“licence” means a lawfully granted licence permitting the doing of an
act controlled by this Act ;
“literary work” includes, irrespective of literary quality, any of the
following works or similar works —
(a) novels, stories and poetical works ;

===== [PAGE 63 of source scan] =====

(b) plays, stage directions, audiovisual work scenarios and
broadcasting scripts ;
(c) choreographic works ;
(d) computer programmes;
(e) textbooks, treatises, histories, biographies, essays and articles ;
(f ) encyclopaedias, dictionaries, directories and anthologies ;
(g) letters, reports and memoranda ;
(h) lectures, addresses and sermons ;
(i) law reports, excluding decisions of courts ; and
(j) written tables and compilations, including table or compilation of
data stored or embodied in a computer or any medium ;
“Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility for
copyright matters ;
“musical work” means musical composition, irrespective of musical
quality ;
“re-broadcast” means a simultaneous or subsequent broadcast by one
broadcasting organisation of the broadcast of another broadcasting
organisation ;
“reproduction” means the making of one or more copies of a literary,
musical or artistic work, audiovisual work or sound recording ;
“service provider” means a provider of online services or network
access, including operators of such facilities, and any entity offering the
transmission, routing, or providing of connections for digital online
communications, between or among points specified by a user, of material
of the user’s choosing, without modification to the content of the material
as sent or received ;
“sound recording” means the fixation of a sequence of sound capable
of being perceived aurally and of being reproduced but does not include a
sound track, accompanying or incorporated in an audiovisual work ;
“work” includes translations, adaptations, new versions or arrangements
of pre-existing works, and anthologies or collection of works which by
reason of the selection and arrangement of their content, present an original
character ; and
“work of joint authorship” means a work produced by the collaboration
of two or more authors in which the contributions of the authors are merged
into inseparable or interdependent part of a whole.
(2) The following provisions shall apply with respect to publication, that
is to say —
(a) a work shall be deemed to have been published if copies of it have
been made available in a manner sufficient to render the work accessible
to the public, including by making the work available to the public by wire or

===== [PAGE 64 of source scan] =====

wireless means in such a way that members of the public may access it
from a place and at a time individually chosen by them ;
(b) where in the first instance, a part only of a work is published, that
part shall be treated for the purposes of this Act as a separate work ; and
(c) a publication in any country shall not be treated as being other than
the first publication by reason only of an earlier publication elsewhere if the
two publications took place within a period of not more than 30 days.
109. This Act may be cited as the Copyright Act, 2022.

===== [PAGE 65 of source scan] =====

SCHEDULE Section 79(3)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE BOARD
Proceedings of the Board
1. Subject to this Act and to section 27 of the Interpretation Act (which
provides for the decisions of a statutory body to be taken by a majority of the
members of the body and for the person presiding to have a second or casting
vote), the Board may make standing orders regulating the proceedings of the
Board and any committee.
2. Every meeting of the Board shall be presided over by the Chairman
or if the Chairman is unable to attend a particular meeting, the members present
at the meeting shall elect one of their members to preside at that meeting.
3. The Board shall meet not more than four times in each year and,
subject thereto, the Board shall meet whenever it is summoned by the
Chairman, and if the Chairman is required to do so by notice given to him by
not less than three other members, he shall summon a meeting of the Board to
be held within 14 days from the date on which the notice is given.
4. The quorum of the Board shall consist of the Chairman (or, in an
appropriate case, the person presiding at the meeting under paragraph 2 of
this Schedule) and five other members and the quorum of any committee of
the Board shall be determined by the Board.
5. Where the Board desires to obtain the advice of any person on a
particular matter, the Board may co-opt him as a member for such period as it
deems fit, but a person who is a member by virtue of this paragraph shall not
be entitled to vote at any meeting of the Board and shall not count towards a
quorum.
6. Notwithstanding anything in the provisions of paragraph 5, the first
meeting of the Board shall be summoned by the Minister.
Committee
7.—(1) Subject to its standing orders, the Board may appoint one or
more committees to carry out on behalf of the Board such of its functions as
the Board may determine.
(2) Every committee appointed under the provisions of subparagraph
(1), shall consist of such number of persons (not necessarily all members of
Board) as may be determined by the Board and a person other than a member
of the Board shall hold office on the committee in accordance with the terms
of his appointment.

===== [PAGE 66 of source scan] =====

(3) A decision of a committee of the Board shall be of no effect until it is
confirmed by the Board.
Miscellaneous
8. The fixing of seal of the Commission shall be authenticated by the
signature of the Director-General and any other staff authorised generally or
specially by the Commission to act for that purpose.
9. Any contract or instrument which, if made or executed by a person
not being a body corporate, would not be required to be under seal may be
made or executed on behalf of the Commission by the Director-General or
any person generally or specifically authorised by the Commission to act for
that purpose.
10. Members of the Board shall be paid such remuneration or allowances
as may be approved by the President.
11. The validity of any proceedings of the Board or of a committee shall
not be adversely affected by —
(a) any vacancy in the membership of the Board ;
(b) any defect in the appointment of a member of the Board or
committee ; or
(c) reason that a person not entitled to do so, took part in the proceedings.
12. Any member of the Board and any person holding office on a
committee of the Board, who has a personal interest in any contract or
arrangement entered into or proposed to be considered by the Board or a
committee shall immediately disclose his interest to the Board or committee
and shall not vote on any question relating to the contract or arrangement.
I, certify, in accordance with Section 2 (1) of the Acts Authentication Act,
Cap. A2, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004, that this is a true copy of
the Bill passed by both Houses of the National Assembly.
OJO O. A., fnia, fcia
Clerk to the National Assembly
13th Day of February, 2023.

===== [PAGE 67 of source scan] =====

EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
This Act provides for the protection of copyright and neighbouring rights,
prescribes appropriate exceptions and improves the effective administration,
regulation and enforcement of copyright in the digital environment in Nigeria.

===== [PAGE 68 of source scan] =====

MUHAMMADU BUHARI, GCFR President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 17th Day of March, 2023. LS(1) Short Title of the Bill Copyright Bill, 2022.